Please allow me to share
with Mr. Holkeri the joy of his election to the
presidency of the fifty-fifth session of the General
Assembly. He can rest assured of Nigeria's support and
cooperation. May I also express the same sentiment on
behalf of the Group of 77. To his predecessor and my
colleague, His Excellency Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab of
Namibia, Nigeria and the Group of 77 wish to express
our pride in and appreciation of the most distinguished
manner in which he discharged his duties as the
President of the fifty-fourth session. We are indeed
very proud of him.
May I also commend the Secretary-General, Mr.
Kofi Annan, for the manner in which he has piloted
20

and continues to manage the affairs of the United
Nations. I would also like to thank him for his
millennium report, which has identified some of the
pressing problems and challenges facing mankind.
In the past few weeks here at the United Nations
a lot of reflection and deep thinking have taken place
among world leaders, all in an attempt to more
coherently define the future. The end of one
millennium and the beginning of another warrant all
these efforts to find such a purposeful definition. Fifty-
five years ago the United Nations was formed as a
global bulwark against armed conflict on a world scale,
such as the Second World War. Over the years its
mandate of preserving international security has
broadened from strictly preventing such armed conflict
to cover also fundamental issues of socio-economic
security for humanity. For example, in many of the
developing countries the United Nations manifests its
potential more through the United Nations Children's
Fund, the World Health Organization, the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization and other agencies than in Security
Council resolutions, comparatively speaking. It is also
from the activities of these United Nations agencies
that the underprivileged sectors of poor countries
benefit directly, activities from which these same
countries, including those in Africa, have come to
imbibe the idealism regarding the United Nations
ability to harmonize the totality of progress to the
benefit of all human stakeholders.
To a great extent this idealism has not been
misplaced. In fact, at no other time has the possibility
of a global family been more real than now. This
prospect must, I am sure, have been very exciting to so
many of us and must have been the basis for hailing the
United Nations system for its own role in and
contribution to these achievements. But as my
President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, aptly observed
here less than two weeks ago,
“Although the world has generally become a
safer place to live in, thanks to the contributions
of the United Nations, we must all feel deeply
worried that the message of hope which the
Organization has been spreading is yet to reach
the millions of humankind for whom it is
intended. For the vast majority of our peoples,
grinding poverty has remained a fact of their
everyday existence.” (A/55/PV.7)
This reality of grinding poverty has raised
considerable apprehension in some United Nations
Member States about their fate in the new millennium.
There is a clear basis for this apprehension, given that
the past millennium was, for most of these countries,
characterized by extreme poverty, heavy indebtedness,
wars of attrition and the resultant mass ordeal and
anguish for both their immediate and distant victims,
absolute vulnerability to epidemics such as cholera,
malaria and typhoid, the rage of the HIV/AIDS
pandemic, the scourge of natural disasters, serious
technological backwardness and a digital divide
between them and the others, and by profound
economic decline and infrastructural decay. In the last
decade in particular, whatever hopes were raised by
some initiatives aimed at mitigating African and third
world underdevelopment have dwindled to nothing as
the world emerged from the cold war into a more
problematic concept called globalization.
The globe, which is the symbol or logo of the
United Nations, depicts humanity. From the word
“globe” has been derived a phenomenon called
globalization, which explicitly connotes a world
without national borders, with particular reference to
commerce, in which humanity is one huge market.
Apart from thus unfortunately associating the noble
and emotive word “humanity” with the materialism of
commerce and the market, globalization automatically
raises other questions for three quarters of humanity
outside the orbit of industrial competence.
In a global economy all the actors in that
economy should also be stakeholders. But what stake
does Africa have in a global economy? Economically,
it is heavily indebted, some of its countries committing
up to 55 per cent of gross earnings to debt servicing
and payment. What can the little that is left do for the
domestic economy? What does an economy that
produces virtually nothing in industrial terms have to
offer, and, moreover, how can it compete in a global
economy? What is the income level of the average
African, relative to that of his or her counterparts in
many countries of the West, vis-à-vis the capacity to
patronize the goods and services which globalization
offers? How does globalization facilitate democratic
consolidation? How can the core values of liberal
democracy, such as the rule of law, the preservation of
human rights and good governance, be sustained by a
Government that lacks the resources to competently
provide a minimum of social service delivery and thus
21

sustain legitimacy and regime credibility? In what
ways would a typical regime in Africa be able to
contribute its quota to democratic consolidation with
the debt overhang, the exchange and interest rate
practices in the international financial architecture, the
prices offered for raw materials relative to the prices of
industrial goods and services, the limited trade access
and the conditionalities tied to loans and aid?
As a responsible member of the international
community and as the chair of the G-77, Nigeria is
obliged to draw attention to the context of our present
situation. What is clear to me now is that the dream of
a global family cannot be attained if the present world
architecture of power and the reward system continues.
The dialogue of the Organization of African Unity, the
Non-Aligned Movement and the G-77 with the G-8
countries has so far shown that a great deal can be
achieved from that approach to the issues in question.
As President Obasanjo again said in a separate speech,
it is imperative for the world to seize this moment to
begin to get the future right, since such a solemn
moment in the history of mankind as the recent
Millennium Summit, may not always present itself. We
are talking of dialogue that takes the issues on board in
a holistic manner, as opposed to the current practice of
abstracting merely one or other manifestation of the
system — for example, in the case of wars of attrition
and the idea of international humanitarian intervention.
The debate so far has brought to the fore the
problem of the contradiction between sovereignty and
intervention. Of course, nation States, even those on
the verge of evaporation, would be sensitive to the
word “intervention”. But, more than that, discussion of
the issue has brought out the one-dimensional nature of
the treatment of some issues or problems in terms of
what we include in or exclude from the definition. In
this particular case, the debate so far has concentrated
on war situations or armed conflicts featuring massive
loss of life.
What of other situations where loss of life is also
of a serious magnitude but not as a result of war or
armed conflict? What of the silent genocide occasioned
by the HIV/AIDS pandemic, epidemics and natural
disasters such as famine, drought, flood, etc.? What
about the situation that arises when sanctions lead to
deaths on a serious scale? All these should find a place
in a proper and systematic discussion of humanitarian
intervention aimed at giving succour to those who may
be trapped in tragedies other than wars.
Similarly, is there no other way by which the
world can arrest the proliferation of small arms and
light weapons in Africa and other parts of the South?
Certainly the world knows about the nature and types
of weapons used in the prosecution of these wars,
where they are manufactured and by whom, the
processes by which they are traded and acquired and
the key facilitators of these processes, including
national governments and arms merchants. What if the
search for solutions focused on these areas?
These and many other weighty global issues were
discussed at the first ever South Summit held in
Havana last April. That Summit was a defining
moment for the Group of 77 countries which pondered
the challenges of the twenty-first century. In Havana
the South resolved to forge a new and meaningful
partnership with the industrialized nations. We
demanded equal partnership in decision-making that
affects the whole of humanity. That was the message
the leaders of the South took to the G8 Summit in
Okinawa. The outcome of that consultation vividly
demonstrates that meaningful partnership is a must for
the new century. Certainly the interests of mankind
compel a more inclusive participation of all segments
of our global community.








2001





Recent events have
manifestly brought to the fore the importance and
relevance of the United Nations in the pursuit of global
peace, security and stability. Only last year in this
historic Hall, world leaders at the Millennium Summit
reaffirmed their solemn commitment to strengthen the
capacity of the Organization in this very important
area. Yet, two months ago, on 11 September 2001, the
efforts of our Organization were temporarily called into
question by terrorist attacks on the United States.
As a country which was directly affected by the
first terrorist bombings in Dar es Salaam in 1998, in
which our embassy building was destroyed, and
because we lost nationals at the attack on the World
Trade Center, Nigeria fully identifies with the rage and
grief of the bereaved families and the victims of these
barbaric acts.
Terrorism is a global menace that challenges the
very basis of our civilization. It must therefore be
confronted globally. That is why Nigeria fully endorses
the prompt action taken by the General Assembly in
condemning these attacks. We fully support Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001), because the measures
called for in the resolution would significantly reduce
the capacity of terrorists to carry out such acts. Nigeria
is committed to the implementation of the resolution’s
provisions. Let us sustain the unity of purpose and
resolve that the terrorist attacks have generated by
strengthening the cooperation and coordination among
our countries. The terrorists and their supporters should
be exposed for what they are: fringe elements
undeserving of a respectable place in the comity of
nations. Our strategies therefore should be informed,
consistent and focused.
In some respects, the grave challenges that we
face today also offer new possibilities for cooperation
previously unimaginable. Our Organization has not
only pursued the goal of international peace and
security, but it has also served as a focal point for the
promotion of other important agendas, particularly in
the areas of socio-economic development, the rule of
law, good governance and respect for human rights.
These goals, which reflect the aspirations of Member
States to build a new world free of conflict, prejudice,
discrimination and oppression, must remain the
enduring preoccupation of our common enterprise. For
this, we have a clear compass, not only in the Charter
of our Organization, but also in the solemn
commitment of our leaders, as reflected in the
Millennium Declaration. Let us strive to translate these
commitments into practical policies for the benefit of
our peoples.
My country’s long-standing commitment to
fostering the objectives of the United Nations in the
area of conflict prevention, peace and stability is well
known. It is regrettable that conflicts and wars continue
to be waged in many parts of the world. It is
particularly disheartening that Africa has had a
disproportionate share of these conflicts and wars, with
devastating impact on our societies and peoples. Yet,
amid the apparent gloom, we see a flicker of hope. The
process of peace and stability in Sierra Leone is
gaining momentum, as the process of reconciliation,
through a programme of disarmament, demobilization
and rehabilitation, funded by the United Nations, has
continued to generate trust and confidence. We are
equally encouraged by recent developments in
Burundi, where a newly installed interim transitional
Government is grappling with the challenges of
national reconciliation and integration. These efforts
attest to the determination of leaders in our continent to
make a success of initiatives for peace. Nigeria is
proud to be associated with these efforts. Our
experience in Liberia and Sierra Leone has reinforced
our conviction that, working in close partnership with
regional and subregional organizations, the United
Nations can facilitate the return to peace and security
in conflict areas. Let us provide these organizations
with the necessary financial and logistic support.
Apart from the commitment to durable peace and
security, there must be a re-intensification of our
resolve to eliminate weapons of war, both conventional
and non-conventional. Of the utmost concern to us in
Africa is the havoc caused by the proliferation of small
arms and light weapons. The Programme of Action
adopted at the recently concluded United Nations
Conference on Small Arms and Light Weapons in All
Its Aspects provides us with a clear road map for
effective cooperation. Its effective implementation will
attest to our commitment to strengthen the forces of
democracy and the rule of law in the world.
We recognize the inexorable march of
globalization and fully embrace the challenges of
expanding opportunities in trade, finance, information
18

and communications technology which it offers. But
the benefits should not be limited to only a small
section of the international community. Globalization
and the twin phenomena of liberalization and
deregulation should work for all countries. The health
and stability of the global economic system demand
nothing less. For us in Africa, access to such benefits
should be reflected in concrete actions and measures
that will ensure our full integration into a new and fair
global economic system.
Nigeria’s call for a fundamental change in current
debt strategies towards developing countries is derived
from a keen appreciation of the impact external debt
has on the economic growth and political stability of
developing countries. The fact that, in spite of welcome
initiatives on debt relief and debt management, many
of our countries have neither grown out of debt nor
been able significantly to service their debts in a
sustainable manner, warrants a bolder and more
imaginative approach, such as outright debt
cancellation.
International efforts to resolve the debt problem
should be bolstered by collective action to discourage
the illegal transfer of funds from developing countries
and the repatriation of such funds to the countries of
origin. African leaders have established a clear linkage
between our huge debt burden, the activities of foreign
collaborators and the transfer of funds by former
leaders and other individuals from our continent. We
are concerned about the corrosive impact of corruption
on our fledgling democracies and our social, economic
and political development. Let us redouble our efforts
to support an international instrument on the illegal
transfer of funds abroad.
At the thirty-seventh regular session of the
Organization of African Unity (OAU), which took
place in Lusaka in July, the leaders of the continent
endorsed the New African Initiative, now called the
New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
The inaugural meeting of the Implementation
Committee of Heads of State and Government on
NEPAD took place in Abuja on 23 October 2001.
Based on a common vision and shared conviction about
the need to urgently eradicate poverty and place
African countries on the path to sustainable growth and
development, NEPAD has, among its key themes, the
promotion of peace, democracy, human rights, social
and economic management, regional cooperation and
economic integration. We appreciate the support
already offered, and we sincerely believe that this
provides the best platform for a viable partnership with
our development partners.
The HIV/AIDS pandemic continues to pose
serious challenges to development in our world. We
appreciate the contribution of the international
community in combating that scourge, as reflected in
the outcome of the special session on HIV/AIDS.
Africa’s resolve to meet the pandemic head-on has
struck a responsive chord, and we are grateful to the
United Nations Secretary-General for his clear
advocacy. I believe that we have reason to be
encouraged by the progress made in establishing
structures and a multilateral framework for greater
cooperation and support in confronting the problem.
Every effort should be made to ensure that the Global
AIDS and Health Fund becomes operational by January
2002. Meanwhile, we should maintain the momentum
so that in the shortest possible time we bring succour to
those who live with AIDS or suffer from tuberculosis
or other related infectious diseases. This is the
expectation of the African leaders who met in Abuja in
April this year to agree on a coordinated strategy on
this health and development crisis. Our attention
should also be focused on the campaign against
malaria, as a follow-up to an earlier summit, which
also took place in Abuja.
The rescheduling of the United Nations special
session on the rights of the child to May 2002 should
provide us with an opportunity to ponder the
challenges which the world’s children face today. For
us in Nigeria, the session will coincide with the
passage of far-reaching legislation, now before the
National Assembly, to protect our children, and go
beyond the provisions of the OAU African Charter on
the Rights and Welfare of the Child, which we have
recently ratified, to revolutionize public awareness and
the defence of their rights. Indeed, in mid-2002,
Nigeria proposes to host an international conference
that will, inter alia, address the issue of trafficking in
children in our region. We look forward to the
participation of Member States.
I cannot conclude without reference to the
question of the reform of the United Nations system.
Nigeria maintains that, in order for the United Nations
to meet the complex challenges of our new century,
long-overdue reforms of the Organization must be
speedily undertaken. The reform of the Security
Council, in particular, constitutes one of the major
19

challenges facing the United Nations today. Let us
work assiduously to complete the reform process and
thereby make the enlarged and expanded Council truly
representative of the United Nations membership.
May I express our profound gratitude to
Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his leadership of our
Organization in the past year. Nigeria rejoices with him
over his well-deserved re-election, a reward for faithful
stewardship and a signal of the trust and confidence of
the United Nations membership in his shared vision for
the future. No less significant is the award to him and
to our Organization of the Nobel Peace Prize for 2001.
We wish him well and heartily congratulate the United
Nations on that achievement.





2002




On behalf of the
Government and people of Nigeria, I join other
delegations in congratulating Mr. Kavan on his election
as president of the fifty-seventh session of the United
Nations General Assembly. I have no doubt that, under
his able leadership, the work of this session will be
guided to a successful conclusion. Let me also
acknowledge the work done by his predecessor, who
guided the affairs of the fifty-sixth session with great
skill and commitment.
The tireless efforts of our Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, on behalf of our Organization must
not go unnoticed. He deserves our profuse
appreciation.
I welcome the newest member of our
organization, Switzerland. I have no doubt that this
nation will bring unique perspectives to the work of the
United Nations, which will enhance the attainment of
its objectives.
It is regrettable that international terrorism
continues to pose a threat to international peace and
security. There is a need for reviewed and concerted
efforts on our part to confront the menace until the
threat is halted. The various international instruments
aimed at combating terrorism deserve our full support.
Nigeria remains deeply committed to the fight against
terrorism. We are committed to the early elaboration of
a comprehensive convention on international terrorism.
Despite the best intentions and efforts of the
international community, a scourge of a different nature
continues to threaten many parts of the world. I refer
here to the numerous theatres of conflict around the
world. People continue to expend valuable energies and
resources in fighting each other, often for causes that
are unproductive. The international community has a
responsibility, not only to design appropriate strategies
for a measured and early response to snuff out these
conflicts, but also to find ways and means of
2

addressing their root causes, and managing them to a
peaceful conclusion. Only then will true peace and
stability reign in the world.
While it is true that many of these conflicts have
their root causes in poverty, ignorance, real and
perceived injustice and the absence of basic freedoms,
it is equally evident that they are often exacerbated,
especially in the case of African conflicts, by the influx
of small arms into the continent. Illicit trade in small
arms and light weapons has continued unabated, with
disastrous consequences for many developing
countries. We are deeply concerned that manufacturing
countries are not doing enough to limit the
proliferation of these weapons through appropriate
safeguards. We, therefore, call on the international
community to consider elaborating a legally binding
international instrument to control the supply of these
weapons to non-State actors.
The United Nations peacekeeping role is an
invaluable one in the global effort to help contain and
resolve conflicts around the world. It deserves to be
sustained and strengthened. Nigeria is proud to be an
active participant in this peacekeeping and
peacemaking effort. We remain committed to this
responsibility in the conviction that we are our
brother's keeper and in the knowledge that there can be
no development without peace and stability.
The situation in the Middle East continues to pose
a serious threat to international peace and security. We
reaffirm our commitment to the right of the Palestinian
people to their own independence, as well as the right
of the State of Israel to exist within safe and secure
international borders, consistent with Security Council
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973). We therefore
welcome the vision and the engagement of the Quartet,
as well as other sponsors of the Middle East peace
process. I urge the parties in the Middle East conflict to
cooperate with the international community and give
the ongoing peace process a chance. That becomes
imperative because we cannot afford a situation of
protracted conflict in the subregion.
Nigeria notes with concern the threat that the
situation in Iraq poses to international peace and
security. We hold the view that any further escalation
of tension would lead to very serious consequences.
Nigeria, therefore, urges the parties concerned to
exercise caution and restraint and that the matter be
resolved in accordance with the provisions of the
Charter of the United Nations.
There is no shortage of international good will
and commitment to development. Various declarations
and programmes eloquently address the need for rapid,
durable and sustainable development, as well as the
desire for the equitable distribution of the world's
wealth. In spite of this good will and good intentions
on the part of the international community, more than
half of humanity lives in abject poverty and ignorance.
For many countries in Africa, hunger and disease
remain pervasive and deeply rooted. Human
development indices for some of the poorest countries
are, indeed, unflattering for a world that is so rich but
with resources so unevenly distributed.
It is our conviction that urgent, concrete action is
required, if the lofty goals we have set for ourselves in
the Millennium Declaration to make the world a better
place are to be realized. Many developing countries
require assistance from the international community in
the form of increased official development assistance
and foreign direct investment flows and efforts to
alleviate their excruciating debt burden and enable
them to develop their human and material resource
base.
Africa remains committed to the attainment of the
goals of the Millennium Declaration. In that regard, I
am pleased to state that Africa is seeking to lift itself
by its own bootstraps, through the New Partnership for
Africa's Development (NEPAD). As members are
aware, NEPAD is designed to address, in a sustained
and coordinated way, many of the developmental
problems associated with Africa's underdevelopment.
We are encouraged by the support that NEPAD
has so far received from the international community.
The latest evidence of this support is the outcome of
the recent meeting of the Group of 8 in Kananaskis,
Canada, towards the implementation of the Action
Plan. It is hoped that the United Nations high-level
segment on NEPAD would record greater successes in
the much expected endorsement of that initiative by the
international community.
This and other programmes designed to improve
the living conditions of the majority of humanity may
not yield the desired results if one of the greatest
dangers facing humanity today is not addressed with
the commitment and urgency it deserves. I am speaking
here of the HIV/AIDS pandemic that continues to bring
3

havoc, misery and hopelessness on humanity,
especially in Africa where the pandemic is threatening
to wipe out entire generations. For example, it is
estimated that out of the 36 million people living with
HIV/AIDS worldwide, 75 per cent of them are in sub-
Saharan Africa. The consequent toll on the human and
material resources of one of the most impoverished
regions of the world cannot be overemphasized. Not
only is the productive population of Africa being
systematically decimated by HIV/AIDS, but efforts to
combat this and other diseases, such as malaria,
tuberculosis and other infectious diseases, are also
diverting scarce resources away from development
programmes and projects. Massive assistance is
therefore required from the international community to
complement the efforts of individual countries.
Nigeria will spare no effort to combat these
scourges. While we are fully aware of the insidious
nature of all of these pestilences, the spread of HIV/
AIDS constitutes by far our greatest source of concern.
For that reason, Nigeria is active in contribution to and
management of the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS.
We have also established a national agency for
the prevention and control of HIV/AIDS to coordinate
the Government's multisectoral approach to the
prevention, control and management of the pandemic.
We pledge to continue to do our best in this human
struggle against this powerful, destructive force,
especially by generating awareness in the country
about its prevention and spread. We continue, however,
to count on the international community to find cures
for these diseases, as well as to give assistance to many
of our countries in these efforts. The leadership of the
United Nations is critical to the success of these
efforts.
I wish once again to draw the Assembly's
attention to the pernicious issue of corruption and its
manifestation at the international level. We have
always maintained that it takes two to tango and that
the instances of corruption in developing countries
have often been supported by encouragement, and
inducements and the provision of safe havens by the
industrialized countries. Thus, we are strongly
advocating that efforts to establish a convention against
corruption need to be expedited, so that we can have
global action against corruption.
There is no doubt that the United Nations has
served humanity well. It has come a long way since its
humble beginnings in 1945. It remains the only
organization to which all nations, in varying degrees
and ways, are associated and committed. Humanity is
the better for the existence of the United Nations. The
Organization provides the basis for our collective
security, international cooperation and solidarity, which
are essential for human coexistence. We must therefore
continue to fine-tune its implementations to make it
more responsive to the needs of the times and to
prepare it for the challenges of the future, some of
which could not have been envisaged by the founding
Members.
I am pleased to note that there is general
agreement among us on the need to reform the
Organization so as to make it more democratic in
structure, more efficient in management and more
manageable in size. Nigeria is a major proponent of the
envisaged reforms, especially those regarding the
structure and working methods of the Security Council.
Nigeria envisages a new Security Council in which it
will play the role destined by its geopolitical
circumstances and the challenges of the twenty-first
century. In this regard, we are willing to contribute to
efforts and stand ready to support others of like mind
and circumstances in this endeavour.








2003



On behalf of the
Government and people of Nigeria, I would like to
congratulate you, Sir, on your election as the President
of the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. I
18

assure you of the cooperation and support of my
delegation in ensuring a successful outcome to this
session. Permit me also to acknowledge the excellent
work done by your predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan. I also
wish to commend the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, for his tireless efforts, vision and leadership,
and for his inspiring address to the General Assembly
this morning.
In recent months, many voices inside and outside
of Governments have questioned the utility, relevance
and efficacy of the United Nations, the only universal
multilateral tool at our disposal. Even more tragically,
sinister forces have taken aim at the United Nations
and its dedicated staff, as demonstrated by the
senseless attack on the United Nations compound in
Baghdad. My Government once again joins the
international community in condemning that heartless
action, which claimed the lives of so many talented and
dedicated staff members. We share the sorrow of the
Secretary-General and his staff, and extend our
heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. In that
connection, I wish to reaffirm my country’s total
commitment to, and support for, our Organization.
My Government is deeply concerned about the
persistence of conflicts in many regions of the world,
and in particular in our subregion of West Africa. The
conflict in Liberia has again tested the will of the
international community to respond proactively to
conflicts and to the humanitarian catastrophes they
leave in their wake. The decision of the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to
deploy troops to Liberia in the face of obvious
hesitation by the international community and despite
the strain it placed our resources was therefore
indicative of our determination to show that we will
not stand by wringing our hands when such
catastrophic events occur in our neighbourhood. We are
greatly relieved that our forward deployment of troops
and the initiative to remove the former Liberian
President from the scene have had such an immediate
calming effect, which will hopefully be further
reinforced by the deployment of a United Nations
peacekeeping force.
I therefore wish to assure the General Assembly
that Nigeria appreciates the decision taken by the
Security Council in resolution 1509 (2003), of 19
September 2003, to authorize a multisectoral
peacekeeping mission in Liberia in order to continue
the achievement of the ECOWAS initiative. I should
like to emphasize the fact that if regional organizations
are to play the lead role that the United Nations is
increasingly demanding, the international community
will not be able to escape its own responsibility to do
much more to strengthen the requisite capacities of
such organizations.
Let me now turn to another subject that is closely
related to the conflicts in Africa. The proliferation of
small arms and light weapons has been identified as
one of the major factors fuelling conflicts. An effective
strategy to deal with that proliferation entails
controlling the illicit trade in that category of weapons
emanating from the countries where they originate, as
well as controlling their transfer to intermediaries and
arms merchants. We therefore call for an early
conclusion of negotiations on a legally binding
international instrument to control the indiscriminate
supply of small arms and light weapons, especially to
non-State actors. In keeping with our commitment to
the eradication of those weapons, ECOWAS has
already established and renewed a moratorium on the
importation of small arms and light weapons. To make
that moratorium as effective as intended, we call for
effective cooperation on the part of all producing
countries.
In April 2003, the people of Nigeria reaffirmed
their commitment to good governance and democracy
by holding successful elections. Following our 1999
elections, which marked the transition from military to
civilian Government, last April’s election represented
both our first civilian-to-civilian transition and a
consolidation of our democratic process. I consider my
re-election to a second — and under our Constitution,
my last — term of office not only as a vote of
confidence but also as a great challenge to deliver the
dividends of democracy to our citizens. To meet that
challenge, my Government has developed a programme
of economic reforms, the National Economic
Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS).
The programme, which places people first, is aimed at
laying a solid foundation for sustainable socio-
economic transformation and poverty eradication. By
its design, it will strengthen governance, enhance
transparency, intensify the fight against corruption and
develop infrastructure — especially in the areas of
electricity, water and roads. It also places high priority
on food security, agricultural development and the
promotion of small- and medium-scale enterprises.
19

I believe that that ambitious economic reform
will constitute an important national contribution to the
attainment of the targets of the Millennium
Development Goals and of the objectives of the New
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). In that
connection, my Government’s new reform programme
is a clarion call to national mobilization and re-
orientation. However, it also envisages active
cooperation by our multilateral and bilateral partners.
We are all too well aware that the development of our
agricultural sector, by which the majority of our people
still earn their living, cannot be successful as long as
huge subsidies to agriculture in the developed countries
continue. My Government, therefore, wishes to use this
forum to call again for the reform of the system of
subsidies to agricultural production, which is
strangulating agriculture in developing countries.
In this connection, it is regrettable that the
reasonable proposals made by the group of developing
countries at the recently concluded World Trade
Organization (WTO) Ministerial Conference in Cancún
were rejected by their negotiating partners, leading to
the collapse of the Conference. Creating conditions of
fair and undistorted trade would be the most effective
way of providing additional resources to developing
countries. This is particularly urgent in light of the low
levels of official development assistance and the recent
sharp decline in the flow of foreign direct investment.
Other areas that we hope the international
community will address with determination include the
problem of external debt. This continues to be a major
obstacle to the development of my country and many
other African countries. It is evident that the various
initiatives by the international community on debt
relief and debt management have been able neither to
address nor solve the problems.
While appreciating the efforts by the international
community in the context of the Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) initiative, we must observe that these
efforts have not provided adequate responses or
solutions to the problems. This is even more true in the
case of the heavily indebted middle-income countries,
like Nigeria, for whom no special debt relief
mechanism exists, although such machinery was
successfully established for countries in Eastern and
Central Europe, for instance.
Nigeria believes, therefore, that bolder steps must
be taken to resolve the heavy debt burden, which for a
large number of countries has become unsustainable
and a hindrance to development. I am afraid that we
have no effective mechanism in place to tackle this
problem. Neither the Bretton Woods institutions nor the
Paris and London Clubs alone can provide lasting
solutions and relief. I therefore believe that this issue is
of such significance for the peace and development of
such a large portion of the world community that we
need to create a mechanism within the United Nations
to address the problem in its full scope, based on the
principle of the joint responsibility of debtors and
creditors alike.
We welcome the ongoing negotiations for a
legally binding instrument on the repatriation of
illicitly acquired funds stashed away in foreign
countries. We call for the early conclusion of the
Convention on that issue. This Convention is expected
to make more resources available for development and
show concretely the global commitment to eradicating
large-scale corruption, which is at the origin of the
funds. In this connection, I must say that the
experience of my country has been one of only
lukewarm cooperation by most countries where our
looted funds have been traced. Our partners among the
great banking nations should recognize that it is
contradictory to condemn corruption on the one hand,
and, on the other, to hinder us in the recovery of the
plundered funds. For our economic and social reform
programmes, the funds to be recovered can make a
huge difference in meeting our national objectives. I
earnestly appeal through this forum for maximum
cooperation in repatriating the looted funds. I take this
opportunity to thank those countries that have matched
their words with actions in assisting us in repatriating
looted funds.
Last year, this Assembly endorsed the New
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) as the
framework for development of the continent. We
commend the Group of 8 for their Africa Action Plan
to support the implementation of NEPAD and hope that
this will soon be translated into cooperation on specific
programmes and projects. In addition, we hope that the
developed countries will also concretely demonstrate
their support for NEPAD.
For our part in Nigeria, the Government’s
economic reform programme is a commitment to
continue to make our contribution to an African
renaissance, which will underpin NEPAD.
20

We welcome the establishment by the United
Nations of the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa
and urge that adequate resources be provided for its
mandate to be discharged effectively.
The HIV/AIDS pandemic continues to ravage our
continent, affecting most of all the productive segment
of the population. To combat the epidemic, my
Government has embarked on a major national
programme of action, the highlight of which consists of
a nationwide public enlightenment campaign and mass
mobilization to deepen awareness and understanding of
the disease, the prevention and control of its spread and
modalities for providing care and support for people
living with the virus. To contribute to the global
programme on HIV/AIDS, Nigeria has redeemed its
pledge of $10,000,000 to the Global Fund.
Let me urge all countries that have not yet made
pledges to the Global Fund to do so urgently. Those
that have made pledges should kindly redeem them
early. I wish to acknowledge with gratitude, the efforts
so far deployed by the international community on the
pandemic, and to thank Secretary-General Kofi Annan
for convening yesterday the high-level plenary meeting
devoted to HIV/AIDS. However, a lot still needs to be
done in a more concerted way to address all aspects of
the problem, including the issue of more international
funding and access to affordable drugs. These actions
must be taken urgently if the Millennium Development
Goal of halting and reversing the spread of this dreaded
disease by 2015 is to be achieved.
The issue of terrorism has been of great
preoccupation to our Organization in the past few
years. Several instances of terrorist attacks continue to
surface in different parts of the world, involving the
loss of innocent lives and vast destruction of
properties.
Nigeria reiterates its condemnation of terrorism in
all its manifestations, and joins other Member States in
the global determination to combat this veritable threat
to national and international security. We support the
work of the Counter-Terrorism Committee, and
reaffirm our conviction that a comprehensive
convention on international terrorism will constitute an
important instrument for the protection of the
individual and collective rights to life.
The situation in the Middle East, which we had
hoped would improve with the adoption of the road
map for a peaceful settlement of the conflict, has again
deteriorated. We call on the parties to halt the new
cycle of violence — a cycle from which neither side
stands to gain. We believe that any violation of the
terms of the peace plan by either side does a great
disservice to the Palestinians, as well as to the Israelis.
We therefore appeal to both sides to demonstrate their
full commitment to the implementation of the plan so
as to create conditions for the peaceful coexistence of a
Palestinian State, side by side with the State of Israel.
In conclusion, I would like to comment briefly on
the issue of the reform of our Organization so as to
make it more responsive to contemporary global needs
and challenges. Nigeria has noted with dismay that
obstacles continue to be placed in the way of the
adoption of any of the constructive proposals for the
reform of the Security Council. The changes that are
being made in the Council’s working methods to make
it more open to non-members are appreciated; however,
these are no more than marginal. I wish again to
reiterate Nigeria’s long held conviction that what is
required is a more fundamental reform that would
democratize the Security Council and thus reposition it
to enable it to respond to issues of international peace
and security in a more comprehensive, objective and
effective manner. The overwhelming membership of
our Organization demands no less in the interest of its
continued relevance.
We cannot preach and endeavour to practise
participation and inclusiveness at the national level
while denying it at the global level of the United
Nations, and expect that all will be well. Yet we have
no substitute for this universal Organization. That point
is now becoming evident in the context of the current
situation of Iraq. Whatever the circumstances in which
the Iraqi war occurred, the role played by the United
Nations will be decisive in resolving the present
impasse. Our Organization has now established itself in
the post-conflict pacification of States. We can use that
vast United Nations experience to our advantage in
managing the current post-conflict situation in Iraq. We
now have the possibility of an independent democratic
Iraq, and we must not waste this opportunity.
One obvious point of disagreement relates to the
issue of decision-making, both prior to and after the
Iraqi war. This may be symptomatic of the
deficiencies — to which I alluded — that are not
conducive to the well-being of our Organization. Let us
therefore undertake the necessary reforms in order to
make our Organization work for all of us so that we
21

can deal effectively and adequately with the pressing
issues of the twenty-first century.





2004


On behalf of the
Government and people of Nigeria, and in my capacity
as the current Chairman of the African Union (AU), I
would like to extend my sincere congratulations to you,
Mr. President, on your election as President of the
fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. I assure
you of the support and cooperation of Africa, of which
10

you are an illustrious son. I would also like to express
appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency The
Right Honourable Julian R. Hunte, Minister for
External Affairs of Saint Lucia, for the dedication and
skill with which he presided over the affairs of the
fifty-eighth session. I commend Secretary-General
Kofi Annan for his effective leadership and for his
efforts to maintain the status of the United Nations in
the face of enormous global challenges.
Nigeria remains unshakeable in its commitment
to and support for the strengthening of the United Nations
and the protection of its cherished ideals, in particular the
maintenance of international peace and security and
cooperation among States to resolve international
economic, social, cultural and humanitarian problems.
The problem posed by the unremitting conflicts in
various regions of the world and the increasingly
difficult task of finding solutions to them continue to
pose serious challenges to the world body.
Nigeria and the African Union (AU) commend
the United Nations for its determined engagement in
crisis resolution and peacekeeping, particularly in
Africa. We have noted with appreciation the changes in
the concept of peacekeeping. Nevertheless, we believe
that some improvements are still necessary to enable
United Nations peace operations to address the social
and economic challenges that inevitably confront
countries emerging from conflict. Those socio-
economic issues invariably form an important part of
the original causes of the conflict.
We also appeal for continued enhancement of the
capacity of regional organizations to undertake initiatives
on crisis resolution in their respective regions. For its
part, the African Union has worked to improve its
Mechanism for Conflict Resolution, and in May this
year established a Peace and Security Council.
The first challenge the AU Peace and Security
Council has faced has been the situation in the Darfur
region of western Sudan, which aroused world attention
because of the reported carnage there. On behalf of the
AU, I want to thank the international community for
the humanitarian intervention being undertaken. As is
well known, the AU has deployed troops to the region
to monitor a ceasefire between the Government of the
Sudan and the opposing movements — the Sudan
Liberation Movement/Army and the Justice and
Equality Movement. Moreover, the first substantive
peace talks took place under the auspices of the AU in
the Nigerian capital of Abuja from 23 August to
18 September 2004. At that meeting, the Sudanese
parties reached agreement on the first of the four points
on the agenda, namely, humanitarian issues. They also
made progress on the second point, security issues,
before adjourning for consultations. A follow-up
meeting is expected to be convened in Abuja around
21 October 2004 on the other issues: political and
economic and social issues. I am closely following the
developments, in consultation with the Chairperson of
the Commission of the African Union and others, and I
now call upon the international community to continue
to lend us its support in resolving the Darfur conflict
and its consequences.
It is cheering to note the progress being made in
Somalia, particularly in constituting the Parliament.
The efforts of the regional countries, which are
demonstrating unprecedented collaboration in helping
the Somalis to move the process forward, should be
applauded. The Somalis themselves must continue to
demonstrate their commitment to repair past errors and
to make their country a respectable member of the AU
and the United Nations.
The Great Lakes region remains a flash point of
violence, as exemplified by the recent massacre of
more than 150 persons in a refugee camp in Burundi.
On 25 June 2004, President Kabila of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and President Kagame of
Rwanda met in Abuja at my invitation and agreed to
activate the Joint Verification Mechanism. Thereafter,
with the participation of the Secretary-General, a
meeting of all stakeholders was held during the third
African Union Summit, held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia,
from 6 to 8 July 2004, in order to accelerate the
activation of the Joint Verification Mechanism. I am
hopeful that this renewed process will facilitate a better
understanding of how to stem the spate of massacres
and engender a peaceful resolution of the protracted
crisis in the Great Lakes region.
With regard to the West African subregion, the
African Union and the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS) are continuing their efforts,
with the constant support of the United Nations, to
ensure steady progress in the peace processes in Côte
d’Ivoire and Liberia. To that end, and in order to
address the standstill in the implementation of the
Linas-Marcoussis Agreement on Côte d’Ivoire, an
extraordinary summit was held under ECOWAS
auspices in Accra, Ghana, on 29 July 2004. The
11

meeting benefited from the presence of Secretary-
General Kofi Annan and some non-ECOWAS African
heads of State. If the agreements reached at that
summit are faithfully implemented, an end to the
conflict should be in sight.
In the margins of the Accra summit, we also
addressed problems that were retarding the
implementation of the Liberian Comprehensive Peace
Agreement. In discussions with all the Liberian
leaders, we agreed decisions on the main issues, and
we have since witnessed encouraging signs that those
decisions are being implemented.
Here, I should like to remark once again that the
delay in providing the resources promised by countries
during the Liberian pledging conference held at United
Nations Headquarters in February 2004 constitutes an
avoidable hindrance to the advancement of peace in
Liberia. I therefore call on all our well-meaning
partners who were kind enough to make pledges to
kindly redeem them.
While the United Nations is justifiably seized of
the issue of weapons of mass destruction — such as
nuclear, chemical and biological weapons — the question
of small arms and light weapons can no longer be
ignored. While the threat of weapons of mass
destruction is awesome, small arms and light weapons
are killing people every day at a rate that,
cumulatively, amounts to monumental destruction.
Nigeria and the African Union welcome the
commencement of negotiations on a legally binding
international instrument to enable States to identify and
trace illicit small arms and light weapons globally. Of
particular interest to Africa is the enormous potential
that such a legally binding instrument can have on
peace and security in our region. We should therefore
not relent in our efforts.
Let me take this opportunity to soundly condemn
the totally unacceptable role of mercenaries and their
sponsors in Africa. The recent attempted invasion of
Equatorial Guinea and other such attempts go against
every imaginable rational effort at promoting stability
and democracy on the continent. We call on the United
Nations to join the African Union in sending the right
signals of condemnation to those mercenaries and their
sponsors.
Our quest for global peace and security will
prove unsuccessful unless we intensify international
cooperation for development and the reduction of
poverty. Just four years ago, we adopted the
Millennium Development Goals, which pointedly fixed
the target of reducing by half the number of those
living in poverty by 2015. Yet by now, the alarm is
being raised that, if present trends continue, that target
may not be met, particularly in Africa, which aside
from the challenges of development, is also being
ravaged by pandemic diseases.
Speaking on behalf of the African Union as its
current Chairperson, I should like to assure the General
Assembly that we Africans are determined to exert all
our efforts to overcome those obstacles to development
that are within our control. To that end, we are
pursuing, with the personal commitment and
involvement of our heads of State and Government
themselves, the implementation of the priorities set out
in our flagship programme, the New Partnership for
Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
In that context, we appreciate the conclusion in
the Secretary-General’s second consolidated report on
progress in implementation and international support
for NEPAD that
“African countries have demonstrated their
commitment to advancing the implementation of
NEPAD by earmarking financial allocations to
selected sectoral priorities.” (A/59/206, para. 67)
The report also concludes that
“The development partners of Africa can
give further practical expression to their support
for the efforts of African countries by taking
action in three important areas: first, by creating
an enabling international environment that is
supportive of growth and development in Africa;
second, by bringing much needed coherence to
trade, aid and debt policies, so that African
countries are the net beneficiaries of international
actions in those areas; and third, by undertaking
concrete measures to accelerate the
implementation of NEPAD by making significant
financial outlays to fund the key sectoral
priorities of NEPAD.” (ibid., para. 68)
I believe that the message to our development
partners is very clear. To demonstrate our commitment
to the principles of good governance, transparency and
the rule of law, 23 African countries have already
subscribed to the African Peer Review Mechanism. It
should be recalled that the Mechanism represents
12

Africa’s voluntary commitment to a set of performance
codes and standards to foster best practices and share
lessons in the management of national affairs. The
promotion of agriculture is being vigorously pursued
both for its export potential and for poverty alleviation.
Encouraging growth rates in agricultural production
are already being recorded in several African countries.
Simultaneously, we are intensifying our efforts in the
promotion of agro-based industries.
To further our efforts at self-help, the heads of
State and Government of the African Union held the
Extraordinary Summit on Employment and Poverty
Alleviation in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, from 5 to
9 September 2004. We adopted a far-reaching
declaration and programme of action. We also adopted
mechanisms for implementation and monitoring at the
national, regional and continental levels.
What may act as an obstacle to implementation in
this most important area for lifting the African
population out of poverty and misery is the inevitable
issue of having adequate resources for meeting our
otherwise realistic goals. On behalf of the African
Union, I appeal to our partners to act once again in the
interest of our shared, common global interdependence
and common humanity.
Africa requires a genuine partnership anchored on
the principle of mutual benefits to ensure the
attainment of sustainable development. One area of
partnership concerns Africa’s external debts. The
negative impact of debt on the economic situation of
African countries, particularly the least developed
countries, can no longer be denied. We remain
convinced that comprehensively resolving the lingering
debt crisis through innovative action would brighten
the prospects of development in Africa.
Africa welcomes the consensus that emerged
from the recent meeting of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development in São Paulo,
Brazil. That consensus reflects a shared conviction that
the Organization can continue to coordinate our views
on trade and development matters. This cannot be
otherwise if the Millennium Development Goals are to
be achieved and the benefits of expanding trade are to
be enjoyed by all peoples and societies.
By launching a new initiative to commence a new
round of multilateral trade negotiations, developing
countries have issued a challenge to our development
partners to exploit global opportunities for growth and
development. We hope they will respond.
Africa remains committed to the fight against the
HIV/AIDS pandemic, malaria, tuberculosis and related
diseases. Since the last series of high-level plenary
meetings on implementation of the Declaration of
Commitment on HIV/AIDS, we have taken bold steps
to deal with the pandemic. Towards that end, we in
Nigeria have established a national scientific institute
for research on HIV/AIDS and intensified public
awareness programmes. In that connection, we
welcome the outcome of the recent International
Conference on HIV/AIDS in Bangkok, Thailand. We
thank the United Nations agencies and all stakeholders
for their collective efforts to stem the spread of the
disease worldwide.
With regard to other deadly preventable diseases,
such as malaria, tuberculosis, polio and whooping
cough, my Government has stepped up its efforts. In a
few days, on 2 October 2004, my Government will
once again embark on a polio immunization
programme, in coordination with six African States —
Chad, the Sudan, Cameroon, Niger, Burkina Faso and
Côte d’Ivoire — to ensure maximum effectiveness.
These are countries where polio has been reported
fairly recently. Significantly and symbolically, the
programme’s launch, with all my brothers and
colleagues present, will take place in Kano.
Last year, the Secretary-General launched a
United Nations reform initiative that we all warmly
commended. In pursuit of that initiative, the Secretary-
General appointed last year a high-level Panel of Eminent
Personalities to examine ways of strengthening the
United Nations through institutional reforms and
processes. We are looking forward to the report of the
Panel. Nigeria — and indeed the rest of Africa — holds
the view that the Security Council should be expanded in
its permanent and non-permanent categories to make it
more representative, more effective and more
acceptable. We hope that those regions of the world
that are not currently represented in the permanent
membership category will be given membership.
Africa, whose issues occupy a substantial part of the
Security Council’s time, ought to be accorded priority
consideration for permanent membership, and Nigeria,
I strongly believe, is a well-qualified candidate.




2005


 On behalf of the
Government and the people of Nigeria, and in my
capacity as the current Chairman of the African Union
(AU), I would like to extend my sincere
congratulations to you, Sir, and your country, Sweden,
on your election as President of the sixtieth session of
the General Assembly. I should also commend you for
the leadership you provided at the High-level Plenary
Meeting over the past three days. The theme you have
chosen for this year’s general debate — “For a stronger
and more effective United Nations: the follow-up and
implementation of the High-level Plenary Meeting in
September 2005” — is indeed most appropriate and
timely, as it encapsulates our common desire for a
renewed and invigorated Organization. I assure you of
the full support and cooperation of the Nigerian
delegation. I would also like to express appreciation to
your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping of the
Republic of Gabon, for his leadership and dedication.
I commend the Secretary-General, His
Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for his tenacity and
leadership qualities, which sustain the role of the
United Nations and underlie the current reform process
of the United Nations system.
You, Sir, have assumed the presidency of the
sixtieth session at a time when the United Nations is
witnessing epoch-making historic events. The session
has in the last three days taken the assessment and
review of the five-year implementation of the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Besides
pursuing the reform process, launched by the report of
the Secretary-General’s High-level Panel on Threats,
Challenges and Change, entitled “A more secure world:
our shared responsibility” (A/59/565), and the
Secretary-General’s own report entitled “In larger
freedom” (A/59/2005), the session will also mark the
tenth year of implementation of the Declaration and
Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on
Women and the Declaration and Programme of Action
of the World Summit for Social Development, held in
Beijing and Copenhagen, respectively.
I have no doubt, Sir, that, with your vast
experience in diplomacy and statecraft, you will pilot
the session to a successful conclusion.
The United Nations continues to play a pivotal
role in the lives of all people with its vast network of
activities. In this regard, Nigeria is firmly anchored in
its belief, commitment to and support for the
strengthening of the United Nations and the protection
of its ideals, in particular, the maintenance of
international peace and security, prevention and
protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms
and promotion of international cooperation in solving
international economic, social, cultural and
humanitarian problems. There remains so much to do
in these areas that only a rejuvenated United Nations
can optimally respond to the challenges.
11

Last year, the situation in the Sudan, including
the Darfur region, was a cause of serious concern to
Africa and indeed to the international community.
However, with the combined efforts of the United
Nations, the African Union and the Intergovernmental
Authority on Development (IGAD), we have managed
to usher in an era of hope in that country. A
Comprehensive Peace Agreement has been signed and
implemented on the long-drawn north-south conflict,
and the fifth round of inter-Sudanese peace talks on
Darfur resumed in Abuja in June 2005 and is currently
in progress. I take this opportunity to once again appeal
to the parties to shed their hard-line approach to
negotiation and adopt a policy of give-and-take in the
interest of posterity.
The international community has demonstrated
tremendous goodwill in facilitating the peace process
in Darfur, and this must be sustained by the parties.
Similarly, it is equally important to maintain and
sustain the current level of peace between northern and
southern Sudan. In this connection, I salute the courage
of the late Mr. John Garang in leading the southern
Sudanese people into reaching an accord with the
Government of the Sudan. We regret the death of
Mr. John Garang and extend our heartfelt sympathy to
his family and to the Government and people of the
Sudan.
The situation in Somalia continues to give hope
to the ability of the contending parties to resolve their
differences in the higher interest of their beloved
country. The African Union will continue to play an
active role in this regard, together with the IGAD and
countries in the region to help Somalis realize their
dream of a united and peaceful country.
In the West African subregion, the African Union
and the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) have continued to remain fully engaged
with efforts to find a lasting solution to the crisis in
Côte d’Ivoire. In this connection, we acknowledge the
valuable support of the United Nations to the peace
process. We appreciate the efforts deployed by
President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa to mediate in
Côte d’Ivoire on behalf of the AU. In view of President
Mbeki’s report of 30 August 2005 and the recent
declaration that the elections scheduled for October
may not take place, it would be necessary for
ECOWAS, and then the AU, to revisit the situation in
Côte d’Ivoire. We will do so in full consultation with
the Secretary-General and the Security Council of the
United Nations.
We commend the evolving return to democracy,
reconciliation, security and development in Togo, and
we appreciate the efforts of the United Nations, the
European Union (EU) and other development partners
in this regard. The elections in Guinea-Bissau have
come and gone. The reconciliation process that will
precede the inauguration of the newly elected President
has begun. Both Togo and Guinea-Bissau will need
substantial support to build their economies, without
which their situations could deteriorate. We call on the
United Nations and its institutions, along with the
European Union and other development partners, to
help.
The AU stands resolutely by its policy of not
accepting to include among its members any
Government that emanates from outside a Constitution
and democratic processes. That is the situation now
with regard to Mauritania. We are of course
maintaining a constructive dialogue and recommending
an expeditious return to democracy, including national
reconciliation and the necessary reforms and
legislation to move the country forward.
We welcome the elections in Burundi and the
Government resulting from that election, which is
based on the newly agreed Constitution. We appreciate
the role played by all the friends of Burundi who
helped to make that happen. Like Togo and Guinea-
Bissau, Burundi will need special assistance to be able
to consolidate its reconciliation and democracy.
We applaud the Secretary-General’s proposal
contained in his recent report on the situation in Sierra
Leone. In particular, we welcome his intention to keep
the security, political, humanitarian and human rights
situation under close review. The AU is also pleased
about the six-month extension of the mandate of the
United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL)
and recognition of the need for a strong United Nations
presence in the country after the withdrawal of
UNAMSIL. We believe the presence of the United
Nations system will foster confidence and guarantee
stability during the critical months following its
withdrawal. We call upon the international community
to continue to extend assistance to the Government of
Sierra Leone in its efforts to develop a credible,
effective and sustainable police force, armed forces and
12

judiciary, as well as rebuild damaged infrastructure
necessary to revamp economic and social activities.
The peace process in Liberia is in its most critical
phase, and calls for the cooperation of all parties in the
country. The AU is closely monitoring developments
there. We are optimistic that the elections scheduled for
next month will lead to a successful transition. In that
connection, the use of propaganda to direct attention to
issues unrelated to the conduct of the forthcoming
presidential elections should be avoided and resisted.
It is pertinent for me to repeat here what I said
before on the issue of Charles Taylor, who was
encouraged to leave Liberia in order to avoid a
bloodbath. He was encouraged by the leaders of Africa
at the level of the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS) and the AU to voluntarily
give up power and leave his country, in the interests of
Liberia, West Africa and Africa, and of world peace
and security. He was escorted to Nigeria by President
Kuffor, who was the Chairman of ECOWAS at the
time, and Presidents Mbeki and Chissano, who were,
respectively, the outgoing and incoming Chairmen of
the AU. We believe that the cause of peace in Liberia
will be served if Charles Taylor stays away, or is kept
away, from Liberia during the transition or early stages
of nation-rebuilding in that country following the
elections.
With regard to the Great Lakes region, we have
taken note of the realistic decision of the two houses of
Parliament in the Democratic Republic of the Congo to
extend, for a period of six months, the transition period
that expired on 30 June 2005, in accordance with the
provisions of the Global and All Inclusive Agreement,
signed in Pretoria in December 2002, and in line with
article 196 of the transitional Constitution. The AU is
determined to continue to work with the United
Nations to facilitate the peaceful resolution of the
conflict. In that connection, we reiterate the AU’s call
to all parties to the conflict in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo to respect that decision. We hope that this
will ensure that the elections provided for by the
Agreement take place satisfactorily. With the
cooperation of all parties concerned and the active
support of the international community, we are hopeful
for an orderly return to normality and the restoration of
peace and stability in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo.
Nigeria’s commitment to nuclear non-
proliferation has never been in doubt. We have always
supported the view that it should involve all States.
Disarmament conventions merit the support of all
States, small or large, nuclear or non-nuclear. My
delegation regrets the failure of the 2005 Review
Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We should not allow
the relative stability in our world to lure us into the
belief that the need for total disarmament no longer
exists. Nor can we separate disarmament from non-
proliferation. Through that we can achieve the goal of
the Charter of the United Nations of saving succeeding
generations from the scourge of war and destruction.
The availability and wide circulation of small
arms and light weapons poses the greatest danger to
peace and security, especially in our region. Those
weapons have helped to prolong conflicts and to
undermine stability, social peace and security. They
have also wreaked devastation on the economies of
affected States. Nigeria therefore welcomes the
agreement of June 2005 on an international instrument
that would enable States to identify and trace illicit
small arms and light weapons in a timely and reliable
manner. However, that is only a stop-gap measure.
What we need is a legally binding international
instrument that will regulate, control and monitor the
illicit trade in small arms, including their transfer to
non-State actors. By pronouncing ourselves clearly and
positively in that regard, Member States would send a
message of their resolve not to encourage or condone
the diversion of those weapons to illicit networks.
Terrorism remains a great threat to peace and
security at the local, national and international levels.
It is inimical to the rule of law, human rights,
democracy and freedom. It impedes sustainable
development through the destabilization of States,
particularly emerging democracies and nations in
transition. Nigeria reaffirms its conviction that
terrorism cannot be justified under any circumstance,
and should therefore be combated in all its forms and
manifestations. To that end, my country welcomes the
adoption, on 13 April 2005, of the International
Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear
Terrorism, and commits itself to work with others to
mobilize the political will necessary to ensure the early
entry into force of a comprehensive convention on
terrorism. We also welcome the Security Council
13

resolution against the incitement of terrorism and
terrorist acts.
As we embark upon a review of the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs), the challenges of hunger,
poverty and disease continue to override our
conscience as well as the conscience of the
international community. It was our concern regarding
those challenges that compelled African leaders to
commit themselves to the ideals of the New
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), whose
principal objective was to encourage good governance,
democracy, the rule of law, security, stability and
macro-economic reforms, among other things. Four
years on, NEPAD has made some modest progress that
reflects our determination to make Africa work for
Africans in an interdependent world and towards the
achievement of sustainable development.
However, notwithstanding our efforts, poverty
remains endemic in Africa. The dangerous correlation
between grinding poverty and alienation from
government as a veritable source of political instability
on the continent leaves much to be desired. We are,
however, grateful for the renewed commitment of our
development partners to redeem their ODA pledges,
increase foreign direct investment, remodel trading
architecture and provide better and effective technical
and structural support to our efforts. We have also
begun to emphasize well-managed and development-
focused tourism as a veritable source of wealth and job
creation and an effective contributor to several of the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
We remain committed to providing the necessary
conducive environment that will encourage investment
and generate wealth and liberate our peoples from
poverty. Our agricultural policies and practices are
tailored to expansion capable of feeding our people,
exporting some of the produce and providing raw
materials for our industries.
The pivotal role of trade as a veritable engine for
economic growth cannot be overstated. Access to
markets of developed countries, withdrawal of
agricultural subsidies as well as elimination of
distorting tariffs are measures that should be addressed
decisively by our industrialized development partners
to enhance the ability of developing countries to
benefit from trade. The successful completion of the
Doha multilateral trade negotiations would be a litmus
test of our resolve.
I wish to recognize the statesmanship displayed
by members of the Paris Club, which recently granted
African countries, among others, debt cancellation and
debt relief. We urge the international community to
adopt an effective, comprehensive, durable and
development-oriented solution to the debt problem of
developing countries, which has become for them a cog
in the wheel of development, growth and progress.
Since 1986, the HIV/AIDS epidemic has rapidly
grown into a monster all over the world. In tackling the
scourge, many African countries, including Nigeria,
have adopted the multisectoral response strategy
recommended by the United Nations.
Nigeria has followed with great interest and
participated actively in the various proposals on the
reform of our Organization, the United Nations. We
strongly support the proposal for the establishment of a
Peacebuilding Commission, since this will go a long
way in filling a yawning gap in the consolidation of
sustainable peace and security in post-conflict
countries, particularly in Africa.
We also support the proposed Human Rights
Council. However, we do not believe that the mere
exchange of the Commission on Human Rights for the
proposed Council would address perceived deficiencies
in the promotion and protection of human rights and
fundamental freedoms, unless the proposed Council
adopts a new culture of treating all cases of violation
with a standard yardstick capable of attracting wide
support and generating confidence.
As far as the proposal for the expansion of the
Security Council is concerned, Nigeria has consistently
supported, and as a member of the African Union
Follow-up Mechanism remains faithful to, the
implementation of the Ezulwini Consensus. We have
done so without any second thought or national
colourations with the sole aim of achieving the best for
Africa in the obligatory negotiations with other regions
and Members of the United Nations, whose support
Africa must necessarily attract to achieve its
fundamental requirement of increasing the number and
quality of its membership on the Security Council.
Finally, as Chairman of the African Union for the
past year, I have had the privilege of working closely
with brother African heads of State or Government in
transforming the African Union into a truly potent and
effective organization for the development of African
peoples. Through our collective efforts, we have
14

brought hope and confidence to Africa. We do not,
under any circumstances, intend to waver in this
renewed commitment of repositioning Africa for peace,
security, stability, growth, sustainable development and
enduring democracy. I am optimistic that with the
invaluable cooperation of the United Nations, our
development partners and the international community
with respect to the MDGs and other NEPAD initiatives,
the African Union will successfully pursue the noble
objectives enshrined in its Constitutive Act.





2006

I bring you, Madam 
President, good tidings from Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, 
President and Commander-in-Chief of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria, who could not be here in person 
as a result of a national tragedy. He has asked me to 
deliver his statement to the Assembly and it is now my 
privilege and honour to read it out. 
  “On behalf of the people and the 
Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I 
would like to extend my sincere congratulations 
to you, Madam, and your country, the Kingdom 
of Bahrain, on your historic election as President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-first session. 
Your assumption of that high office is a source of 
inspiration to us all, particularly to women all 
 
 
11 06-53329 
 
over the world. I assure you of the support and 
cooperation of my delegation. 
  “I would like to extend my profound 
appreciation to your predecessor, His Excellency 
Mr. Jan Eliasson, for the commitment and 
dedication with which he presided over the affairs 
of the sixtieth session. This was particularly 
evident during the delicate negotiations that 
resulted in the establishment of the Peacebuilding 
Commission and the creation of the Human 
Rights Council. 
  “The founding fathers of the United Nations 
envisaged an international organization whose 
primary strength would rest on the ability of its 
Members to act collectively and in a spirit of 
cooperation in solving international problems. 
  “The theme for this year’s general debate, 
‘Implementing a global partnership for 
development’, aptly captures this aspiration and, 
indeed, reaffirms one of the objectives of the 
Millennium Development Goals. Nigeria restates 
its firm commitment to the principle that genuine 
global partnership is the key to development. This 
is particularly so in the face of the many 
challenges confronting us today. 
  “For Africa, the most urgent challenge 
remains the resolution of conflicts and the 
maintenance of peace and security as the 
foundation for socio-economic progress. We 
remain undaunted and have collectively decided 
to take action to address the problem under the 
auspices of the African Union. Our efforts have 
been bolstered by the active engagement of the 
Security Council and the international 
community, for which we remain grateful. I am 
happy to note that in Liberia and Sierra Leone, 
where hostilities have happily ceased, there are 
signs of progress everywhere as democracy and 
its benefits take their most important first steps. 
  “With respect to Côte d’Ivoire, Nigeria 
welcomes the recent efforts by all parties to 
overcome their differences through dialogue. We 
urge them to remain steadfast in their 
commitment in order to ensure that the peace 
process remains on course. However, it is now 
doubtful that elections can take place in October. 
But we must not allow the elections in Côte 
d’Ivoire to be postponed beyond 31 December 
2006. If the proposed extraordinary meeting of 
the Economic Community of West African States 
in early October fails to achieve this goal, a 
Security Council resolution will become 
necessary to impose heavy sanctions on all 
culprits and their relations. 
  “Nigeria is encouraged by the progress 
towards implementation of the Darfur Peace 
Agreement, which was signed in Abuja last June. 
We are, however, concerned by the slow pace of 
implementation regarding key aspects of the plan, 
which has exacerbated the humanitarian situation. 
We share the frustration of the international 
community over the lack of access to vulnerable 
groups in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. 
We call on all parties to respect their 
commitments. 
  “The situation in Darfur has placed a heavy 
burden on the African Union and continues to 
exert pressure on its meagre resources, as it 
struggles to maintain a peacekeeping force of 
over 7,000 troops. Africa’s commitment to peace 
in Darfur was reaffirmed by the latest decision of 
the Peace and Security Council of the African 
Union, at its meeting in New York on 
20 September 2006, to extend the mandate of the 
African Mission in the Sudan (AMIS) until 
31 December 2006. Nigeria calls on the 
international community to urgently assist the 
African Union with the logistical and financial 
support to sustain AMIS through that date. 
  “If the early removal of the obstacles that 
have thus far prevented the conclusion of the 
negotiations on the replacement of the African 
Union force with a United Nations peacekeeping 
force cannot be achieved, the African Union may 
be left with no other option but to allow the 
troops to return to the contributing countries. The 
consequences of the withdrawal of AMIS without 
a United Nations umbrella will be the full 
responsibility of the Government of the Sudan. 
  “Nigeria is concerned by the increasing 
threat of violence and insecurity in the world 
brought about by threats or acts of terrorism. 
Nigeria strongly condemns all acts of terrorism 
and calls upon the international community to 
redouble its efforts to defeat this heinous crime in 
all its forms and manifestations. 
  
 
06-53329 12 
 
  “On the situation in the Middle East, 
Nigeria welcomes Security Council resolution 
1701 (2006) and calls for the implementation of 
the terms of the ceasefire by both parties. We 
believe, however, that a long-lasting solution 
must come through dialogue and a readiness to 
abandon violence as a means of resolving the 
crisis. The root causes of the Middle East crisis 
must also be addressed in a comprehensive 
manner for lasting peace to be attained. We 
reaffirm our commitment to a two-State 
arrangement: Israel and Palestine living in peace 
within secure borders, in accordance with 
Security Council resolutions. We therefore call on 
the international community to show greater 
commitment to the peaceful and early resolution 
of the Israeli-Palestinian crisis. 
  “West Africa has experienced conflicts for 
many years as a result of the illicit proliferation 
of small arms and light weapons in the region. 
We believe that the restoration and maintenance 
of peace are critical for socio-economic 
development in the subregion. Towards that end, 
in June this year, States member of the Economic 
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) 
adopted a landmark Convention on Small Arms, 
Light Weapons, Their Ammunition and Other 
Associated Material to reduce violence in the 
subregion and pave the way for the achievement 
of peace, security, stability, cooperation and 
development. The Convention bans international 
arms transfers, except those for the legitimate 
defence and security needs of member States. Of 
greatest significance is the ban on transfers to 
non-State actors, who have been largely 
responsible for political instability in the 
subregion, as elsewhere. 
  “In this regard, I wish to express Nigeria’s 
deep disappointment that the first United Nations 
Review Conference on implementation of the 
Programme of Action on small arms and light 
weapons failed to agree on a final document, 
including a similar ban on arms transfers to non-
State actors. I urge all Member States to be 
guided by the example of ECOWAS on this issue 
when and if the Conference reconvenes. 
  “As a demonstration of Nigeria’s 
commitment to the fight against illicit small arms, 
we have deposited the instrument of ratification 
of the Firearms Protocol to the United Nations 
Convention against Transnational Organized 
Crime. We also call for a comprehensive and 
legally binding global arms trade treaty. 
  “Humankind has made giant strides in the 
field of nuclear technology since the discovery of 
the atom. This has opened up vistas of 
opportunities for determined and committed 
societies to uplift the standard of living of their 
citizenry. Indeed, nuclear energy has become a 
veritable source of socio-economic development 
and a reliable source of electricity generation. We 
note in particular the global trend towards the 
utilization of nuclear technology for the 
generation of electricity, agricultural 
development, human health and environmental 
development, especially for developing countries. 
  “In the context of this development and of 
the enormous energy crisis that confronts us in 
Nigeria, my Government decided to inaugurate 
the Board of the Nigeria Atomic Energy 
Commission. With the inauguration of the Board, 
our quest for energy self-sufficiency has begun. 
  “Nigeria remains resolute in its commitment 
to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT) and the Treaty of Pelindaba on 
the African nuclear-weapon-free zone. We wish to 
assure the international community of our 
determination to restrict the use of nuclear energy 
to purely peaceful purposes. 
  “I take this opportunity to reiterate our deep 
appreciation to this body for the invaluable 
support it has given to the New Partnership for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD). We are also 
very appreciative of the interest shown by the 
international community and the commitments it 
has made in support of NEPAD. The NEPAD 
initiative remains our continent’s most viable 
socio-economic blueprint; it could bring 
sustained economic growth while strengthening 
good governance and enhancing the protection of 
the human rights of our peoples. 
  “Trade is one of the most potent and 
genuine engines of economic growth and 
development. We therefore support efforts that 
would enhance the ability of our countries to 
enjoy the benefits of the successful conclusion of 
agreements on regimes under the auspices of the 
 
 
13 06-53329 
 
World Trade Organization (WTO). In this 
connection, we regard the recent breakdown of 
the WTO Doha round of development talks as a 
very serious setback. The successful conclusion 
of Doha development talks and the 
implementation of their outcome would provide 
succour to the almost 1 billion people currently 
subsisting on less than one dollar a day. We urge 
all parties to return to the negotiating table and 
resume talks in the spirit of global partnership, 
cooperation and global economic progress. 
  “Nigeria remains committed to the fight 
against the HIV/AIDS pandemic, malaria, 
tuberculosis and related diseases. We have taken 
bold steps to deal with them. To this end, we 
hosted the Special Summit of the African Union 
on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in Abuja 
in May this year. At the Summit, African leaders 
reaffirmed their commitment to earlier 
declarations and pledged to take immediate action 
to ensure universal access to relevant drugs. We 
applaud the Political Declaration on HIV/AIDS 
(resolution 60/262) which was adopted at the 
United Nations High-level Meeting on HIV/AIDS 
last June and hope that it will be fully 
implemented. 
  “On 14 August this year, Nigeria lowered its 
flag for the last time on the Bakassi peninsula and 
effectively withdrew its presence there in 
accordance with the ruling of the International 
Court of Justice. With this final act, Nigeria has 
fulfilled its obligations under the terms of the 
agreement between my country and Cameroon. I 
use this opportunity to recognize the positive 
contributions of Mr. Kofi Annan and members of 
the international community and to thank them 
for their assistance and support. Nigeria hopes 
that our brotherly neighbour will protect and 
respect the rights and freedoms of Nigerian 
nationals who decide to remain in the area in 
accordance with the mutually agreed terms. 
  “Nigeria believes that the reform of the 
United Nations system must not lose momentum. 
National or regional interests should not be 
allowed to obscure our common objectives for a 
reinvigorated United Nations. The reform should 
be linked to the overall interest of making our 
Organization stronger, more effective and better 
positioned to meet the challenges facing both the 
weak and the strong. 
  “The identity, importance and relevance of 
the different organs of the Organization must be 
maintained. Above all, nothing should be done to 
weaken one in favour of the other. The General 
Assembly, as the pre-eminent, deliberative, 
policymaking and representative organ of the 
United Nations, deserves the support of all 
Members. It remains the only organ where States 
big or small, rich or poor, find equality and voice. 
  “It is in this context that African countries, 
along with other Members of the United Nations, 
have called for the reform of the Security 
Council. For us, no reform will be complete 
without the reform of that vital organ. The 
Security Council, as now constituted, does not 
reflect the realities of our time. We hope that 
progress will be made on this issue during this 
session. 
  “I cannot conclude this statement without 
paying a special tribute to my brother, the 
distinguished statesman Mr. Kofi Annan. Nigeria 
salutes his dedicated service to our Organization. 
He has, in the past 10 years, assiduously piloted 
the United Nations through very important 
milestones and turbulent waters.  
 “It is, indeed, impossible to forget the 
reform agenda that you have initiated and set in 
motion. We are proud of you and your services 
and wish you the best in your future endeavours. 
As I am attending the General Assembly for the 
last time in my capacity as President of the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria, I wish to take this 
opportunity to thank all my colleagues and the 
Secretary-General as well as all the staff of our 
Organization for their support and cooperation 
over the past seven years.” 




2007


I stand before the  Assembly for the first time as President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria, and I wish to reaffirm Nigeria's 
complete dedication and commitment to the ideals of 
the United Nations. We declare our total support for the 
Organization's efforts to meet the multiple 
humanitarian, social, peace and security and 
development challenges confronting our world today.  
 At the outset, may I, on behalf of the Government 
and the People of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 
congratulate Mr. Kerim and his country, the Republic 
of Macedonia, on his election as President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-second session. I assure 
him of the full support and cooperation of the Nigerian 
delegation as he leads the deliberations of the session.  
 I also wish to extend my profound appreciation to 
his predecessor, Her Excellency Ms. Haya Rashed Al 
Khalifa, for the commitment and dedication with which 
she presided over the affairs of the sixty-first session. 
 I formally extend my sincere congratulations to 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon on his assumption of office as 
Secretary-General. I commend him for his resolute 
leadership and his determination to carry through the 
requisite reform of the United Nations system and 
assure him of the full support of the Nigerian 
Government.  
 I also pay tribute to the previous Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for the commitment, 
diligence and courage with which he piloted the affairs 
of the United Nations during the past 10 years. We are 
proud of the enormous contributions made to this 
Organization by that illustrious son of Africa.  
 Since coming into office, my Administration has 
anchored its pursuit of a re-energized, stable and 
prosperous Nigeria on the fundamental principles of 
democracy, good governance, free enterprise and the 
rule of law. Those are worthy principles which Nigeria 
shares with the United Nations family.  
 As a main theme of this session's general debate, 
'Responding to climate change' is most appropriate. 
the African continent is particularly vulnerable to the 
impact of climate change. In our collective 
determination to meet this challenge, African leaders at 
the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the 
African Union (AU), which met in Addis Ababa last 
January, decided to integrate climate change issues into 
all sustainable development initiatives at the national 
and regional levels.  
 Nigeria reiterates its commitment to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
While applauding the successful outcome of the high-
level event on climate change that was held here two 
days ago, on 24 September, we affirm that much more 
needs to be done.  
 It has been seven years since world leaders met in 
this Hall for the Millennium Assembly and committed 
themselves to ridding Africa of its most pressing 
socioeconomic and political challenges in order to 
allow the continent move with the rest of the world. 
While tangible progress has been made in a few areas, 
the continent is still bedevilled by great challenges.  
 The continued festering of the Darfur crisis 
remains a blight on the collective conscience of the 
international community, one which the Assembly 
needs to address with the utmost urgency. The 
humanitarian crisis has reached a critical level. The 
Abuja Peace Agreement, which Nigeria helped to 
facilitate, remains the reference point for a 
comprehensive settlement of the crisis. However, the 
lack of full implementation of the Agreement raises 
serious cause for concern, and we call on all parties to 
respect their commitments and help drive the peace 
process forward. We continue to support the process 
and reaffirm our support for the African Union â€” 
United Nations hybrid force in the Sudan.  
 It is imperative that the concerted fight against 
the HIV/AIDS pandemic, malaria, tuberculosis and 
related diseases not lose momentum. At the national 
level, we in Nigeria have consistently taken concrete 
measures to raise awareness of HIV/AIDS and to 
increase funding for the National Action Committee on 
AIDS. We appreciate the financial and material 
assistance from our development partners in this 
regard, but our continent cries out for even more 
intensified collective efforts at ridding Africa of this 
and other pandemics.  
 Two years ago, we appraised our performance 
against the set targets of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) and realized that unless concrete and 
more determined actions were taken, the overarching 
aim of meeting the 2015 targets of poverty eradication 
would remain a fantasy. We recognize that the primary 
responsibility for social and economic development 
rests mostly with individual States. Within the ambit of 
the African Union's New Partnership for Africa's 
Development, the nations of Africa are practically 
facing up to the continent's economic and 
sociopolitical development challenges through the 
adoption and engendering of a new political culture 
that will be conducive to long-term development.  
 Through such initiatives as the African Union's 
African Peer Review Mechanism, our programme of 
self-monitoring and self-assessment, as well as the 
institutionalization of the ideals of democracy and 
good governance, Africa has clearly defined an assured 
course to economic regeneration and political stability. 
What Africa seeks from the international 
community is genuine partnership for economic 
development. This should be manifested in a global 
economic system predicated on fairness, justice and 
equity, one that ensures fair trade terms and recognizes 
the centrality of mutuality in prosperity. More 
specifically, Africa requires massive and focused 
foreign investment in the development of critical 
infrastructure across the continent. 
 Let me say that we in Nigeria are wholly 
committed to the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism Strategy (resolution 60/288) in the fight 
against international terrorism. As a follow-up to that 
commitment, Nigeria has established four counter-
terrorism centres in the country, in addition to the 
Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit, which, together 
with the Central Bank of Nigeria, monitors banking 
transactions as part of the mechanism to locate and 
terminate the illegal transfer of funds for terrorist and 
other criminal acts, including money laundering. 
Nigeria reiterates its condemnation of all acts of 
terrorism and calls upon the international community 
to muster the political will necessary to confront and 
check this menace. 
 Nigeria affirms its abiding faith in the ideals and 
objectives of the United Nations. We believe that a 
strengthened and restructured United Nations would be 
best placed to address the complex challenges facing 
our world today. In that regard, my delegation will 
continue to collaborate with other Member States to 
press for comprehensive reform of the United Nations 
system, including the much-desired expansion of the 
Security Council in both the permanent and non-
permanent categories in order to reflect the realities of 
todayâ€™s world. The situation whereby Africa is totally 
excluded from permanent membership of the Council 
is unfair and untenable and must be rectified. 
 The challenges that confront our world today call 
for renewed purpose, renewed resolve, renewed 
courage and renewed respect for human dignity. 
Posterity beckons us to a real test of our sense of duty. 
We cannot afford to fail that test. I assure the Assembly 
that Nigeria will continue to support the United 
Nations in our collective aspirations for a safer, fairer, 
more just and more prosperous world. 




2008

I congratulate you, 
Mr. President, on your election to preside over the 
General Assembly at its sixty-third session. You may 
remain assured of the full support and cooperation of 
the Nigerian delegation as you guide our deliberations. 
May I also express appreciation to your predecessor for 
the able manner in which he presided over the work of 
the Assembly’s sixty-second session. 
 In his address to this Assembly last year (see 
A/62/PV.7), the Nigerian President reaffirmed the 
determination of Nigeria to remain a stable and 
prosperous nation, anchored on the enduring principles 
of democracy, good governance, free enterprise, the 
rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights. 
In pursuit of those objectives, we have raised the bar 
on bold political, economic and social reforms aimed at 
making our economy more investment friendly and our 
democracy more inclusive. We continue to count on the 
support and understanding of the international 
community, especially our development partners, as we 
accelerate measures to enhance the overall capacity of 
the Nigerian State. 
 A strong, safe and prosperous Nigeria means a 
dependable contributor not only to regional stability 
and well-being, but to the emergent global ethics so 
crucial for the survival of humanity. From the very 
beginning of our nationhood, our foreign policy has 
been tethered to a responsible and proactive role in the 
United Nations and its commitments everywhere. Thus, 
we never hesitated to respond unconditionally to 
demands for sacrifices whenever and wherever duty 
called, whether in the Congo, Sierra Leone, Liberia or 
now in Darfur, and in the next few months, in Somalia. 
Nigeria is as safe as the rest of the world. That for us is 
the true meaning of global solidarity and the sense of 
equal partnership that informed the vision of the 
founding fathers of this Organization. 
 It is against that background that we raise before 
the Assembly the concern and plight of many 
developing countries, especially in Africa, suffering 
from the devastating consequences of the illicit trade in 
small arms and light weapons. Most of the civil wars 
and insurgencies in those countries have been carried 
out with such weapons, and because of their lethality 
and ready deployment, they may be described as 
Africa’s own experience of weapons of mass 
destruction. 
 We remain convinced that the best and most 
effective strategy to achieve the goal of preventing, 
combating and eradicating that illicit and deadly trade 
is through the elaboration of a legally binding global 
instrument, as well as the political will on the part of 
all to stem the uncontrolled proliferation of small arms. 
Therefore, urgent action is needed to criminalize oil 
bunkering, the sale of oil so acquired and the use of its 
proceeds to fuel new crisis situations in Africa, 
especially in the Gulf of Guinea, through the 
proliferation of small arms and light weapons. The 
same creativity and political will that was 
demonstrated in confronting blood diamonds as a 
source of regional instability must be available at this 
time in dealing with the blood oil that now threatens 
the Gulf. 
 Nigeria has made enormous sacrifices on behalf 
of peace in Darfur. Over the years we have maintained 
peacekeeping troops in the region, first, under the 
ambit of the African Union and now under the African 
Union-United Nations hybrid peacekeeping force. We 
call on the international community to take bold and 
robust steps that would lead to the full deployment and 
operationalization of that force. In the same vein, we 
call on the Government of the Sudan to take steps that 
will facilitate the attainment of this objective. 
 Midway towards the target year of 2015, it has 
become evident that the lofty Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) might not be attained by many 
countries. This much is clear from the outcome of the 
High-level event on the MDGs that took place in the 
margins of this session on 25 September 2008. Mindful 
of the importance of these Goals for our development, 
Nigeria is determined to do everything to ensure their 
realization. In this connection, we commend the efforts 
of the Secretary-General in creating the Millennium 
Development Goals Africa Steering Group to map out 
strategies for African countries to achieve the targets. 
 It is time to urge, with the directness that these 
challenging times demand, evidence of a more 
manifest will on the part of the international 
  
 
08-53141 10 
 
community, especially our development partners, to 
really assist Africa to join the rest of the global success 
story. Around this issue, the Nigerian delegation is 
looking at ten such indicators. 
 The first is the critical need for a big 
infrastructure push, especially in energy and 
transportation, without which nothing else is possible 
on the continent. Secondly, the food crisis in Africa 
must be addressed by redressing the trilogy of fertilizer 
imbalance between Africa and other regions of the 
world, removing food subsides in the developed 
economies, and transferring relevant technology for 
food production and food processing. Thirdly, the Doha 
Round of trade negotiations must be revived. Fourthly, 
massive investment in information technology and 
higher education is needed to spur development of 
Africa. Fifthly, strategies must be devised with African 
Governments on how to transform the continent’s 
current brain drain into brain gain. Sixthly, a global 
commitment to stem the flow of small arms and light 
weapons into Africa is needed. Seventh, national 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative projects 
in Africa must be encouraged and supported. Eighth, 
there should be Security Council reforms that accord 
Africa permanent membership in the Council. That 
would ensure African ownership of its responses, since 
over 60 per cent of issues addressed by the Council are 
African. Ninth, attention should be paid to 
development of clean energy technology and 
alternative sources of energy to avert the looming 
disaster of climate change for a continent that is 
already very vulnerable. Tenth, we need a breakthrough 
in the malaria vaccine, together with greater sustained 
support for the fight against the HIV/AIDS pandemic, 
two major impediments to reaching our potential in 
Africa. 
 The recent steep rise in global food prices has 
presented us with a monumental challenge and the 
global embarrassment of compounds of misery sharing 
increasingly crowded space with compounds of 
affluence in our global village. It is unacceptable that, 
despite technological advancements and resources 
unimaginable two decades ago, children still die of 
hunger and malnutrition. How can one say that the 
genius that permits us to make living in outer space 
feasible looks the other way when over 1 billion people 
in the world are going to bed hungry and more than 
6 million children are dying each year of hunger and 
malnutrition? This problem deserves the full attention 
of this Assembly. The right to food for all must be 
pursued with renewed vigour. 
 Nigeria condemns terrorism in all its forms and 
manifestations. We reaffirm our support for the 
counter-terrorism measures of the Security Council and 
the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. 
We have also been implementing the four pillars of the 
Global Strategy through measures that have proven 
effective in combating terrorism. For us, the fight 
against terrorism is strongly anchored in the rule of law 
and respect for human rights. As we combat this 
scourge, it is important that, fundamental freedoms and 
human rights are neither compromised nor abused. 
 The United Nations must not relent in its pursuit 
of the goal of a world in which all nations and peoples 
live in freedom and dignity and in which all political, 
economic, social, cultural and human rights are fully 
guaranteed. Our active participation in the activities of 
the Human Rights Council and the African 
Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights is 
evidence of that commitment. 
 In our subregion, we are concerned, that drug 
cartels, often based outside the region, are now 
targeting West Africa as a transit route for the 
movement of illicit drugs to other regions. The 
activities of those drug cartels constitute a serious 
impediment to development in the subregion. The 
world must pay adequate attention to this growing 
problem. 
 Let me reiterate Nigeria’s unwavering support for 
the United Nations and its objectives and purposes. We 
are convinced that the Organization remains the most 
viable platform for consultations, consensus-building 
and action on the global challenges that we presently 
face. Mankind has not developed any better substitute. 
 Nigeria believes in the pacific settlement of 
disputes and peaceful coexistence with our neighbours. 
We showed that when, on 14 August 2008, Nigeria, in 
full compliance with the ruling of the International 
Court of Justice, lowered its flag for the last time by 
withdrawing from the Bakassi Peninsula. For that 
singular act of statesmanship, Nigeria has justifiably 
received the commendation of the international 
community. Our action accords with our long-standing 
tradition as a nation that honours its commitments. We 
believe that if we all, in concert, stand up for these 
shared values and purposes, our Organization and our 
world will be a much better place. 
 
 
11 08-53141 
 
 This can, and should be a General Assembly like 
no other, for the crises that face us now have few 
precedents in scope and complexity. What is required 
is a new posture to move from data to determination, 
from rhetoric to results and from words to wisdom. Our 
many noble visions must begin to somehow find more 
vigorous forms of expression. A world so greatly 
challenged must also be a world so much more capable 
of imagination and boldness. The platform for such 
boldness and such imagination is here, in this 
venerable institution founded 63 years ago on the 
pillars of peace, justice and freedom for all. 
 Let us never forget the timeless words of the 
internationalist and Nobel Laureate who warned that to 
deal with the problems that we have created, we need 
to move unto a higher order of thinking than the one 
with which we created them. The time to do so is now, 
for the clock of humanity is ticking very fast. Our 
existential challenge did not end with the cold war; 
indeed, it has just started.  



2009

On behalf of the 
Nigerian delegation, I wish to congratulate His 
Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki on his election as 
the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
fourth session. I have no doubt that the Assembly will 
benefit from his wealth of experience and wisdom. Let 
me therefore affirm the full support and solidarity of 
my country. Similarly, I wish to commend the 
President of the Assembly at its sixty-third session, His 
Excellency Father Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, for the 
able and effective manner with which he conducted the 
affairs of that session. 
 Last year when we gathered here, we were 
hopeful that the world would soon put behind it the 
devastating impact of the various global crises in the 
energy, agriculture and financial sectors. However, in 
spite of the efforts by the international community, the 
developing world is yet to experience any serious 
relief. There is no doubt that more than ever before the 
international community needs to fulfil its 
commitments to the developing world if more than half 
of humanity is to avoid an imminent calamity.  
 In this connection we welcome and applaud the 
efforts of the United Nations, in particular the outcome 
of the United Nations Conference on the World 
Financial and Economic Crisis and its Impact on 
Development held in New York last June . We call for 
the support and implementation of the recommendations 
of the conference and hope they will receive the 
unconditional support of the developed nations. 
 Equally important is the need for global efforts to 
boost food security. We need to increase food 
production, whether for domestic consumption or for 
export, which requires collaboration among investors, 
organizations and Governments. It is relevant here to 
reiterate our call for the removal of the enormous 
agricultural subsidies that developed countries continue 
to give their farmers, a practice that defies the logic of 
a free market economy and remains unfair to millions 
of poor peasant farmers across the world. 
 As we approach the countdown to 2015, a 
convergence of many factors, including the global 
economic crisis, is threatening not only the 
achievement of the targets for the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), but also the substantial 
gains already made. Unless we act fast, our dream of 
lifting the vast majority of humanity out of extreme 
poverty, hunger and disease will remain an illusion. 
Donors and recipient countries alike should make more 
effort to fulfil their commitments under the 
programme. For our part, we are determined to do all 
we can in order to attain the MDG targets, and we are 
calling on the international community to continue to 
provide support. 
 The African Summit on Roll Back Malaria, which 
was held in Abuja in 2000, adopted the Abuja 
Declaration and the Plan of Action to reduce malaria 
by 50 per cent in Africa by 2010. To achieve this goal, 
African countries affected by malaria were expected to 
devote 15 per cent of their public expenditures to the 
health sector. 
 Although considerable efforts have been made by 
the affected countries, as well as by donor agencies, the 
goal of Roll Back Malaria has not been realized. 
Malaria remains by far the biggest killer disease for 
  
 
09-52604 42 
 
children under 5-years old in Africa. This should weigh 
heavy on the global conscience. 
 Africa is committed to the goal of eliminating 
malaria, and to this end, Nigeria intends to host the 
Abuja-Plus Ten Summit on Roll Back Malaria in 2011. 
We would therefore appreciate the support of the 
Secretary-General, not only to make the proposed 
summit possible, but also to facilitate the realization of 
its objective. 
 The quality of participation at the just concluded 
2009 Summit on Climate Change was a testimony to 
the global realization that climate change has truly 
become seen as a genuine existential threat to 
humanity. I commend the Secretary-General for his 
consistent engagement with this most important issue 
of our time, and call on all Member States to rededicate 
themselves to reversing the worst effects of this 
phenomenon. 
 For us in Africa, as the continent where, 
unfortunately, 15 of the world’s 20 countries most 
vulnerable to the impact of climate change are situated, 
we hope that the outcome of the fifteenth Conference 
of the Parties to the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change coming up in 
Copenhagen later this year will be an acceptable 
response to this global threat. 
 Even in the middle of this tale of global economic 
and financial woes, there is a silver lining. We are 
gratified and greatly encouraged by the increasing 
rapprochement between the United States and Russia 
on nuclear disarmament. The idea of a nuclear-free 
world, the architecture of which is now being put 
together, has great appeal for many of us. 
 Such an outcome, probably achievable in our 
lifetime, would not only result in a safer and better 
world, but would free resources for use in sectors that 
would benefit humanity. Nigeria encourages all nuclear 
Powers to identify with this great initiative, this dream, 
and to embrace any and all initiatives that promote the 
achievement of the goal of a world free of nuclear 
armaments and the apocalyptic nightmare. 
 It is in this connection that Nigeria applauds the 
conclusion and bringing into force of the Pelindaba 
Treaty, the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty, 
which bans the testing, manufacturing, stockpiling, 
acquisition and possession of nuclear weapons in 
Africa. This is a commendable testimony to Africa’s 
total rejection of the proliferation, and indeed the 
existence, of nuclear weapons. We call on all other 
regions to follow suit. The Review Conference of the 
Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons coming up next year provides an 
opportunity that should not be missed. 
 While we applaud this development, let us not 
forget that there are weapons still being produced that 
have killed far more people than nuclear arms in the 
tragic history of humanity. I speak, in particular, about 
the production of small arms and light weapons and 
their illicit export to regions like my own, Nigeria and 
West Africa, where these small arms and light weapons 
have become the real weapons of mass destruction — 
destroying many lives of innocent children, men and 
women, destroying property, economies and dreams — 
as well as the undermining of national and regional 
efforts at development. 
 We are all aware of the close link between such 
weapons and organized crime, drug trafficking and, in 
the case of Nigeria, piracy and oil smuggling in the 
Niger Delta. The proliferation of such weapons in West 
Africa is fast turning the region into a major transit 
point for illicit drugs, thus also facilitating the growth 
of criminal syndicates, some with enough firepower to 
challenge a nation’s military forces. This cannot be just 
a West African problem. It should be seen as a global 
threat. 
 This is why we continue to call on the 
international community to demonstrate greater 
commitment to keeping this threat in check by 
implementing existing initiatives, as well as developing 
new and legally binding ones, where necessary, geared 
towards achieving the goal of preventing, combating 
and eradicating illicit trade in small arms, and 
regulating the transfer of conventional weapons in 
general. The full implementation of the United Nations 
Programme on Small Arms would be a very good 
beginning. 
 Although over the past decade, West Africa has 
made considerable progress by way of building or 
strengthening democratic structures in our various 
countries, the job is far from done, and this is not the 
time to rest on our laurels. Peace and security 
challenges remain daunting in some parts of the 
subregion. As current Chairperson of the Economic 
Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the 
President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 
 
 
43 09-52604 
 
Mr. Alhaji Umaru Yar’Adua sent a special envoy, in 
fact a former Head of State, the former President of 
Nigeria, to President Mamadou Tandja of the Republic 
of Niger with a view to establishing a line of 
communication with him in favour of a peaceful 
resolution of the political problems of our esteemed 
neighbour to the north. A delegation of ECOWAS 
Foreign Ministers undertook a similar visit with the 
same objective. Our role is largely mediatory, but we 
are waiting with cautious optimism for the democratic 
imperative in the Republic of the Niger to be upheld. 
 The situation in Guinea-Bissau is somewhat more 
cheerful. Guinea-Bissau held successful elections last 
July and, as members may already be aware, President 
Malam Bacai Sanhá was sworn in on 8 September. 
Because of the strong commitment on the part of all 
stakeholders in Guinea-Bissau, this peaceful transition 
to democratic, constitutional rule has taken place. We 
are indeed very proud of what the Government and the 
people of Guinea-Bissau have been able to achieve. 
Guinea-Bissau can now look forward with hope to a 
peaceful and bright future, and Nigeria will continue to 
stand side by side with that country as it charts its 
destiny for the future. 
 In Guinea-Conakry, where elections have again 
been slated for next January, we continue to impress on 
the authorities the need for the country to return to 
democratic rule through manifestly transparent, free 
and fair elections. We hope that these efforts will yield 
dividends in the form of an elected civilian government 
early next year. Our own experience and history in 
Nigeria leave us with no other choice than to remain 
unwaveringly and unambiguously on the side of the 
consolidation and maturation of constitutional 
democracy and to strongly repudiate even the slightest 
prospect of democratic reversal in the subregion. It is 
our national interest to do so.  
 ECOWAS has proven over and over again its 
willingness and capacity to come to the aid of its 
members in their hour of need. In that spirit, we will 
continue to make our best efforts to ensure that peace 
and stability reign in the region and to facilitate the 
realization of the objectives implied in the 
Community’s name. We continue, as usual, to count on 
the support of the United Nations system. 
 Nigeria continues to make great strides in our 
efforts to build a peaceful, stable and prosperous 
nation, able to provide the best possible life for its 
citizens and able to fulfil its international commitments 
and obligations. We have made great progress in laying 
a solid foundation for democracy, and we are seeking 
to build on this foundation to grow an economy that 
will see Nigeria take its rightful place among the 
world’s economic powerhouses. However, there are 
challenges. Some we can deal with by ourselves. 
Others require the help, support and cooperation of our 
friends and allies and of the United Nations family. 
 Those who have been watching events in our 
country in the past few months will testify to the 
progress we have made in the Niger Delta in finding 
durable solutions to the political, social and 
environmental problems of one of the most 
strategically important regions of our country. Today, 
relative peace has returned to the Niger Delta, largely 
on the back of an amnesty deal which the Government 
and erstwhile militants forged and are implementing 
together. The return of peace to the region would 
provide the platform for meeting the aspirations of the 
people, as well as allowing the resumption of full 
economic activity there. 
 Nigeria is a signatory to the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and to the majority of 
other international and regional human rights 
instruments, and we continue to remain focused and 
committed on the issue of human rights.  
 In our endeavour to overcome the constraints 
brought about by the present gap between our nation’s 
increasing demand for power to drive its development 
and the available supply, we join others in pursuit of 
reliable, cheap and environmentally friendly alternative 
sources of energy. In this regard, we are gratified by 
the support and assistance that we, as a non-nuclear 
State, continue to receive from the International 
Atomic Energy Agency in exploring alternative sources 
of electricity generation, as well as in the areas of 
radiation control, waste management and training. We 
will continue to collaborate closely with the Agency, as 
well as to rely on the assistance of our allies and 
friends. 
 Nigeria welcomes the ongoing reform and 
democratization of the United Nations system and 
notes the progress made in the intergovernmental 
negotiation process. We encourage all parties to 
continue the negotiations with renewed vigour with a 
view to achieving the desired objectives. Of particular 
importance to Nigeria is the enlargement and 
  
 
09-52604 44 
 
democratization of the Security Council. It is 
unacceptable that Africa, with 53 countries, is not 
represented in the permanent seat category of the 
Council. We call upon Member States to demonstrate 
the necessary political will to bring about the long-
awaited reform, in order to make the Security Council 
more legitimate, more democratic and more transparent 
and inclusive. 
 Nigeria’s commitment to the United Nations and 
the international system has been demonstrated over 
the years. This commitment accords with the 
provisions of our Constitution, which enjoins us, inter 
alia, to promote international cooperation for the 
consolidation of universal peace and to promote 
respect for international law and treaty obligations. Our 
international behaviour has always been guided by 
those noble foreign policy objectives. 
 Nigeria has been the fourth-largest contributor in 
the world to peacekeeping operations, and the role we 
have played — and will continue to play — in 
peacekeeping in the subregion, the African continent 
and, with the United Nations, around the world is a 
clear testimony to our unflinching commitment to 
joining hands with others, especially the United 
Nations, in laying solid foundations upon which human 
prosperity can be built. This is why we welcome the 
new strategy by the United Nations to strengthen the 
partnership between troop-contributing countries and 
the United Nations, especially in the provision of 
adequate resources and the capacity to strengthen 
regional peacekeeping initiatives. 
 Finally, as usual, Nigeria will continue to draw on 
its vast experience and commitment in its efforts to 
contribute to the realization of the objectives and 
values of the United Nations. We assure all our allies 
and friends that Nigeria will continue to be a 
responsible global member of the United Nations, 
subscribing to all the norms, conventions and values of 
this human family and providing leadership, especially 
on issues concerning West Africa and indeed the rest of 
the world.




2010

I welcome this opportunity 
to address this Assembly for the first time since I was 
sworn in as President of my country, Nigeria, on 6 May 
this year. 
 I extend sincere congratulations to Mr. Joseph 
Deiss on his well-deserved election as President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. Allow me 
also to congratulate his predecessor on the skilful way 
in which he conducted the affairs of the Assembly 
during its sixty-fourth session. I also commend the 
Secretary-General for the quality of his leadership. I 
assure the President of the General Assembly of the 
support and cooperation of the Nigerian delegation 
throughout his tenure. 
 This session coincides with the fiftieth 
anniversary of the independence of 17 African 
countries, including my country, Nigeria. It is true that 
the United Nations played an important role in the 
acceleration of decolonization, in part through the 
adoption of many resolutions supporting the right of 
nations to self-determination. The independence and 
subsequent admission of many of these countries into 
the United Nations has greatly enhanced the 
Organization’s legitimacy, thereby advancing the noble 
goals of its Charter. 
 Nigeria was one of the countries to emerge from 
colonialism in 1960 into a whole new world of 
independence and sovereignty to take on the task of 
nation-building and to play the international role that 
destiny had conferred on us. Our participation in the 
United Nations peacekeeping mission in the Congo 
seven days after gaining our independence was the 
direct and deliberate fulfilment of the international role 
that we had set for ourselves as a people. Since then, 
we have participated in numerous United Nations 
peacekeeping missions, as well as in similar regional 
endeavours. Nigeria has been and will continue to be 
an active participant in the work of the United Nations, 
striving therein to promote national, regional and 
global objectives. 
 Despite many years of independence, many 
countries still face the daunting challenges of nation-
building. It is in this connection that the Millennium 
Summit of 2000 adopted a set of goals to be realized 
by 2015. The outcome of the events related to the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) that took 
place recently here in New York inspires a real 
appreciation of the enormous scope of the task ahead 
for many countries, including ours. The urgency of the 
action needed to address the situation has been clearly 
  
 
10-54959 24 
 
and unambiguously underscored in the intervening 
discussions. 
 Even though we have achieved significant 
improvements in the eradication of polio and other 
child-related diseases, Nigeria still has its own fair 
share of challenges to overcome. Progress on MDGs 4 
and 5, which relate to the reduction of maternal and 
child mortality, has been relatively slow. The weakness 
of the primary health care system and limited referral 
institutions remain crucial challenges in the health care 
sector. 
 On the positive side, Nigeria has recorded 
remarkable progress in the provision of universal basic 
education, and we are also in the process of 
harmonizing baseline data that will assist us in the 
proper monitoring and evaluation of all MDG projects. 
 The Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria continues to be a prime 
mechanism for addressing Millennium Development 
Goal 6. Accordingly, Nigeria will remain both a donor 
nation to and a recipient of the Fund. Having actively 
participated during the first and second replenishments 
with total contributions of $20 million, Nigeria will 
make further contributions of $10 million during the 
third replenishment. We will also call for the Muskoka 
commitment to be met now, and the Global Fund to be 
expanded to include MDGs 4 and 5 in support of the 
Secretary-General’s Every Woman, Every Child 
initiative. 
 Good governance, strict adherence to the rule of 
law and respect for human rights remain fundamental 
tenets of my administration. The consolidation and 
safeguarding of our democracy are a task on which we 
are beginning to see positive results. The smooth 
succession of power since Nigeria’s return to 
democratic rule in 1999, including my own ascension 
to the presidency of our country after the demise of my 
predecessor, is evidence of the commitment of all 
stakeholders to democratic governance in the 
knowledge that political stability is imperative to the 
economic development of any nation. 
 As we celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of our 
independence in a few days, we remember the 
sacrifices of the founding fathers of our nation, as well 
as our own responsibility to present and future 
generations. In fulfilment of these aspirations, we are 
firmly committed to holding free, fair and credible 
elections during the 2011 general elections. In this 
regard, we have taken the steps necessary to ensure the 
success of the process. I assure the Assembly that 
every vote will count in Nigeria. 
 We are also working to strengthen our 
institutional structures for combating corruption, 
financial crimes, and other vices, such as human and 
drug trafficking. We are reforming the financial sector 
to make it more accountable and transparent. This will 
ensure that our country enjoys political stability, social 
harmony and economic growth. 
 In support of our commitment to the global effort 
to combat terrorism, we continue to strengthen and 
expand our institutional capacities to tackle all forms 
of extremism. In fact, we currently have two bills — a 
counter-terrorism bill and an anti-money laundering 
bill — before our National Assembly, and I am 
confident they will be enacted into law before the end 
of the current legislative year. 
 Soon after I assumed the leadership of my 
country as acting President, I was invited by the 
President of the United States of America to a mini-
summit on nuclear disarmament in Washington, D.C., 
in April this year. Like all previous Nigerian leaders, I 
share the American President’s vision of a world free 
of nuclear weapons, and I will continue to collaborate 
with him and all humankind for the realization of this 
laudable goal. Our support for and active participation 
in the adoption of the Pelindaba Treaty is evidence of 
our commitment to the total elimination of nuclear 
weapons. This conforms with our status as a signatory 
to the major treaties on nuclear disarmament. 
 At the same time, small arms and light weapons 
have destabilized the African continent, fuelled and 
prolonged conflicts, and obstructed relief programmes. 
They have also undermined peace initiatives, increased 
human rights abuses, hampered development and, 
perhaps more worrisome, fostered a culture of 
organized crime and violence. We note, however, that 
the illicit trade in and proliferation of small arms and 
light weapons do not receive adequate attention. 
Nigeria calls on the United Nations to take firm action 
to control the proliferation of small arms and light 
weapons by adopting an arms trade treaty. 
 It is estimated that there are approximately 100 
million of these weapons in sub-Saharan Africa alone. 
These weapons have been identified as having killed 
more people in the African continent than any other 
type of weapon. However, unlike for nuclear, chemical 
 
 
25 10-54959 
 
and biological weapons, there are no global treaties or 
legally binding instruments for dealing with the 
challenges posed by small arms and light weapons. It 
must be underscored that the dumping of these 
weapons in Africa and their free use are among the 
greatest challenges facing African leaders today. These 
weapons encourage impunity, transborder crime, armed 
robbery, piracy, kidnapping and the rape of innocent 
women. In general, their presence hampers economic 
growth because no one wants to invest in a nation or 
region that is prone to crisis. We know of 
approximately 300 companies that produce and trade 
such small arms and light weapons in approximately 50 
countries around the world. And we believe that it is 
time for the United Nations to come on strong if it 
truly wants to help Africa get out of the woods. 
 In my capacity as Chairman of the Economic 
Community of West African States, I am pleased to 
report that we have made substantial progress in 
bringing peace and stability to countries in the 
Community that were until recently embroiled in 
political crises. This has greatly improved the situation 
across the subregion, which in turn has enhanced the 
peace and security that are critical to development. We 
will continue to build on these achievements to 
consolidate stability and engender prosperity in the 
subregion. 
 Nigeria chose the theme of preventive diplomacy 
for an open debate it convened during its presidency of 
the Security Council in July 2010 (see S/PV.6360) to 
highlight the importance that it attaches to conflict 
prevention. It is obvious that preventing conflicts is a 
cheaper option for maintaining peace and security than 
peacekeeping. I urge the United Nations to devote 
renewed attention to preventive diplomacy. The 
increasing financial burden of peacekeeping and the 
high human cost of conflict are good reasons for the 
United Nations to pursue with vigour the adoption of 
preventive diplomacy in the spirit of the provisions of 
Chapters VI and VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations. 
 For Nigeria, a major contributor of troops to 
peacekeeping operations around the world, it is 
essential that the rules of engagement be reviewed to 
prevent high casualty rates among contingents. It 
deeply saddens us to see troops wearing the United 
Nations colours being waylaid and murdered because 
of the rules of engagement. 
 The theme for the sixty-fifth session of the 
General Assembly — “Reaffirming the central role of 
the United Nations in global governance” — is timely 
and appropriate. The need for the United Nations to 
provide leadership in addressing problems and 
challenges of a global nature is imperative. We urge the 
Organization to quicken the pace of reform, not only to 
better reflect current global realities, but also to ensure 
that it enjoys genuine legitimacy. Good governance 
requires participation by all nations and all peoples of 
the world. 
 The early reform and, in particular, expansion of 
the Security Council will accord the United Nations 
greater effectiveness in global good governance. The 
exclusion of the African States from the Council’s 
permanent membership category can no longer be 
justified. 
 I would like to reaffirm Nigeria’s abiding faith in 
the role of the United Nations in the pursuit of our 
common goals for the benefit of all humankind. We 
therefore pledge our continued support for the 
Organization, in order to strengthen it, as a way of 
identifying with the ideals for which it stands. 
 In conclusion, I wish to thank all Member States 
for their kind words of condolence and sympathy in 
honour of the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua at 
an Assembly meeting last May (see A/64/PV.86). Even 
though he is gone, his legacy lives on, as my 
Administration continues to implement the 
programmes we had jointly designed during his time as 
President of our country and while I was second-in-
command. May his soul rest in peace.




2011

On behalf of the 
Government and people of Nigeria, I would like to 
congratulate the President on his election as the 
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth 
session. I have no doubt that under his able leadership 
the work of the session will be brought to a successful 
conclusion. I should also like to acknowledge the 
excellent work done by his predecessor, His Excellency 
Mr. Joseph Deiss, who guided the affairs of the sixty-
fifth session with consummate skill and commitment. 
 I must also take this opportunity to extend my 
warmest felicitations to Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon on his well-deserved re-election, a tribute to 
his leadership and vision. He deserves our appreciation 
for the good work he is doing on our behalf. 
 I also welcome the newest member of the 
Organization, the Republic of South Sudan. I am 
confident that South Sudan will bring a unique 
perspective to the work of the United Nations and 
enrich our collective experience. 
 Despite our initial optimism, the peace dividend 
we had hoped would accrue following the end of the 
Cold War is yet to materialize. On the contrary, the 
world of the twenty-first century in which we live is 
becoming ever more precarious, unpredictable and 
certainly more dangerous — perhaps more than at any 
other time in history. The increasing use of terror in 
various regions of the world as a form of political 
action poses a serious threat to international peace and 
security. We must win the war against terror because it 
infringes on the fundamental right of all peoples to life 
and to live in safety from fear. 
 Over the past few months, we in Nigeria have 
faced an upsurge in terrorist attacks in parts of our 
country. Only recently, the United Nations building in 
Abuja housing several United Nations agencies was the 
target of an atrocious terrorist attack that left several 
dead. On behalf of the Government and people of 
Nigeria, I would like to convey my sincere 
condolences to the families of the victims and to the 
entire United Nations family for this barbaric and 
heinous attack on those who have dedicated their lives 
to helping others. As the United States and the rest of 
the world commemorate the tenth anniversary of the 
attacks of 9/11, we are reminded of the international 
  
 
11-50692 44 
 
dimension of terrorism and the imperative of a 
concerted global response to combat this scourge. 
 For us in Nigeria, terrorist acts, rather than 
intimidating us, will only help to strengthen our 
resolve to develop appropriate national strategies and 
to collaborate even more closely with the international 
community in the fight against this menace. As part of 
Nigeria’s efforts to fight terrorism, on 3 June, I signed 
into law a terrorism bill and an anti-money-laundering 
prohibition amendment act. The new laws not only 
outline measures for preventing and combating acts of 
terrorism, but also prohibit the financing of terrorism 
and laundering of the proceeds of crime. Nigeria will 
continue to work with the United Nations and other 
partners in this global fight. 
 To that end, Nigeria is working closely with the 
Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force and the 
Counter-Terrorism Executive Directorate, as well as 
with relevant international bodies and friendly 
countries, in order to sharpen our response 
mechanisms. In that connection, the Counter-Terrorism 
Implementation Task Force will launch its first project 
in Abuja in November, which will be aimed at 
preventing conflict and countering the appeal of 
terrorism to youth through education and dialogue. In 
addition, Nigeria is a member of a new global body, the 
Global Counterterrorism Forum, launched to galvanize 
and help pull our efforts together to fight this scourge 
in all its ramifications. We pledge to continue to work 
with all stakeholders as we enlarge and intensify our 
partnerships. 
 When I stood before the Assembly last year, I 
made a solemn pledge that Nigeria would conduct free 
and credible elections in the second quarter of this 
year. I am glad to report that last April we indeed 
conducted what have been adjudged to be credible and 
transparent general elections. Let me take this 
opportunity to thank the United Nations and all the 
other organizations, nations and individuals that helped 
us to achieve that feat. The elections are now behind 
us, and the Government that I head is well on course to 
implement our programmes of transformation — a 
strategic plan for the delivery of the dividends of 
democracy to citizens and for preparing our country for 
the challenges of the future. Indeed, all across my 
country, there is a renewed sense of optimism and self-
belief in our ability to recreate a new Nigeria on the 
principles of personal freedoms, democracy, good 
governance and the rule of law. 
 Permit me to identify with the theme of this 
year’s debate of engaging the role of mediation in the 
peaceful resolution of conflicts in the world. The 
Assembly will recall that Nigeria was in the forefront 
of the campaign to promote this theme when, as the 
President of the Security Council in July 2010, my 
country adopted the use of preventive diplomacy to 
resolve armed conflicts across the world. This theme is 
apt and could not have come at a better time, when 
armed conflicts are increasingly taking a greater part of 
the time and resources of the United Nations. 
 For too long, the international community has 
focused too little attention on mediation and preventive 
diplomacy, and far too much effort and resources on 
the military aspects of peace and security. Yet measures 
to address the root cause of conflict, including dialogue 
and mediation, can be far more effective as a means for 
achieving sustainable peace and stability. 
 I believe that cultivating peace and fulfilling the 
aims of Chapter VI of the United Nations Charter 
require early identification and appropriate 
intervention in conflict situations in order to build 
confidence and trust and to preclude the eruption of 
violence between opposing parties. As I see it, our goal 
should always be to present the peaceful alternative as 
a less costly and effective way of achieving political 
and social objectives. I also believe that, in addition to 
other traditional tools of preventive diplomacy, 
democracy and good governance can be particularly 
important in building a just, equitable and inclusive 
society. By focusing on mediation as a tool for conflict 
prevention, we are able to address the real triggers of 
conflict, without which we cannot achieve sustainable 
solutions. 
 However, for the world to move from a culture of 
response after conflict to that of a culture of 
prevention, the international community must muster 
the political will to promote preventive diplomacy, in 
particular through mediation. This will necessarily 
entail rededicating greater human and financial 
resources to institutions and mechanisms that already 
exist, within and outside the United Nations system, 
for conflict prevention and resolution. 
 Going forward, I would like to propose the 
establishment, under the Secretary-General’s Office, of 
a conflict mediation commission, to be charged, among 
other things, with collating information on conflict 
situations across the world, identifying the dramatis 
 
 
45 11-50692 
 
personae and developing appropriate strategies for 
initiating the resolution of such conflicts. The 
commission would also develop rules of engagement, 
including sanctions that would apply to those who may 
obstruct efforts to resolve conflicts peacefully. 
 This naturally brings me to the issue of 
trafficking in small arms and light weapons. If the idea 
of resolving conflicts through mediation is to succeed, 
then the problem of trafficking in small arms and light 
weapons must be frontally tackled. The proliferation of 
small arms and light weapons is particularly 
worrisome, due to their easy accessibility and 
availability to unauthorized persons and groups, who in 
turn have used these arms to create instability and 
insecurity in most of the countries of the developing 
world. Even worse, the proliferation of these weapons 
has proved handy in the hands of terrorists. 
 This explains our commitment to, and 
preoccupation with, the actualization of an arms trade 
treaty that robustly addresses the illicit trade in small 
arms and light weapons, which, as we all know, are 
among the major causes of destabilization and conflict 
in Africa. The danger of the proliferation of, and illicit 
trade in, small arms and light weapons informed 
Nigeria’s decision to sponsor resolution 61/89, of 2006, 
the principal objective being to provide a legally 
binding international instrument for the trade in 
conventional arms. We will continue to support all 
initiatives towards the realization of an arms trade 
treaty in 2012. I call on all Member States to join in 
this endeavour. 
 The increasing rate of piracy and other maritime 
crimes, with their attendant damaging effects on 
security, trade and economic activities in the Gulf of 
Guinea and other locations, calls for coordinated 
regional and global approaches. In this respect, I would 
like to express support for the proposal of the 
Secretary-General to deploy a United Nations 
assessment mission to study the situation in the Gulf of 
Guinea and explore possible options for United 
Nations support and action. Our expectation is that a 
positive outcome from such a strategy will benefit not 
only our subregion but the larger international 
community as well. I am already consulting with other 
leaders in our subregion to boost this initiative. 
 The United Nations strategy for gender equality 
and women’s empowerment, especially through the 
creation of UN-Women, deserves commendation and 
support. Nigeria’s support for UN-Women, to which 
we have made substantial contributions, reflects our 
desire to harness the potential of women in the task of 
nation-building. 
 Our national action plan on gender equality and 
women’s empowerment places strong emphasis on 
women’s effective participation in politics and 
adequate representation in public office. I am indeed 
proud to announce to the Assembly that more than 
30 per cent of my Cabinet is made up of women. Let 
me also commend the Executive Board of UN-Women 
on the successful take-off of the entity. UN-Women can 
be assured of Nigeria’s strong support. 
 This year, the prevention of non-communicable 
diseases was one of the issues slated for discussion at a 
High-level Meeting. Only three months ago, I attended 
the High-level Meeting on AIDS, where I pledged 
Nigeria’s commitment to health care, as part of our 
country’s human capital development agenda. My 
Government is intensifying efforts to improve national 
health-care delivery by allocating substantial resources 
to primary health care. We look forward to a 
productive outcome to the High-level Meeting on the 
Prevention and Control of Non-communicable 
Diseases at the end of that meeting.  
 In the same vein, I welcome discussions at the 
High-level Meeting on desertification and land 
degradation, as these issues continue to pose 
challenges to our development efforts. That is why 
Nigeria strongly supports the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change and the 
Convention on Biological Diversity, including 
strategies and best practices to address this challenge. 
 In order to demonstrate our commitment to 
human rights, Nigeria recently ratified the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and acceded 
to four other international human rights instruments, 
including the Optional Protocol to the Convention 
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading 
Treatment or Punishment.  
 In addition, this year, my Government passed into 
law the National Human Rights Commission 
Amendment Act, the Legal Aid Council Amendment 
Act and the Freedom of Information Act. Nigeria will 
continue to accord the highest priority to human rights 
issues, as they speak directly to the dignity and 
inalienable rights of humankind. 
  
 
11-50692 46 
 
 We in West Africa are passing through an exciting 
season of democratic rebirth. Before the end of 2011, 
elections will have been held in six countries in West 
Africa. Those elections will set the respective countries 
along the path of political stability, progress, good 
governance and sustainable development — some of 
the benefits of which we have begun to experience. 
The progress we have made would not have been 
possible without the support of the United Nations. 
 The resolution of the conflict in Côte d’Ivoire is a 
case in point. I consider the inauguration of President 
Ouattara a success not just for Côte d’Ivoire but also 
for the international community, which spoke with one 
voice and acted in concert in support of the Ivorian 
people. The end of that crisis must be seen by all as the 
beginning of our journey towards the consolidation of 
democratic culture and good governance in Africa. 
Having put that crisis behind us, the international 
community must now provide robust assistance to the 
country as it embarks on the tasks of post-conflict 
reconstruction and national reconciliation. 
 The struggle for self-governance and majority 
rule in Africa started in the 1940s; and by 1957 Ghana 
had gained independence. Today, all African States 
have achieved self-determination and majority rule. 
Those are no small achievements. But we still have 
much work to do. A great deal of the work that remains 
is to build viable and capable States in Africa on the 
principles of popular participation, the rule of law and 
respect for human rights, as we pledged to do in the 
Constitutive Act of the African Union. Nigeria believes 
that those values must remain at the core of governance 
in Africa if we are ever to achieve the goals of stability, 
security and development. 
 As Nigeria is approaching the end of its tenure on 
the Security Council, I would like to express my 
country’s deep appreciation for the opportunity to serve 
in that important organ. In the course of our 
stewardship, the Council had the courage to reach 
many difficult decisions that resulted in positive 
developments around the world. We are proud to be 
associated with those decisions. I would like to urge 
the Council to continue its important work in the 
maintenance of international peace and security.  
 In spite of the Council’s many successes, it is our 
belief that that important organ would benefit from the 
vigour and fresh perspectives that only a revamped 
Council accommodating changing global political 
realities can provide. I urge the President of the 
General Assembly to set up clear criteria for the reform 
of the Security Council in line with the demand of the 
majority of the world. A reformed Security Council is 
the only way to demonstrate that all nations have an 
equal stake in the United Nations. Nigeria looks 
forward to the prospect of membership in a reformed 
Security Council.



2012



Let me start by congratulating
Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of the General
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. I have no doubt
that under his able leadership the work at this session
will progress to a successful conclusion. I also wish
to acknowledge the excellent work of his predecessor,
Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, who guided
the affairs of the sixty-sixth session with diligence
and consummate skill. I must seize this opportunity to
applaud Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for the able
manner in which he has continued to guide and lead the
Secretariat of our Organization.
When I addressed the Assembly last year on the
theme of the role of mediation in the settlement of
disputes by peaceful means (see A/66/PV.11), the world
was witnessing important and dramatic changes. The
Arab Spring had broken out, setting new political
standards for social contracts between Governments
and the governed. Also, South Sudan, today sitting at
the family table of the United Nations, had just gained
independence.

Since then, we have witnessed considerable
progress and also some setbacks. Knowing that the
future remains uncertain and perilous, we have always
believed that much more needs to be done to protect
our gains, including developing new strategies for
preventing and resolving conflicts.
The situation in Syria, which continues to weigh on
the collective conscience of the world, is a case in point.
Every day since the conflict began, innocent people
continue to lose their lives and livelihoods, while tens
of thousands of others f lee into neighbouring countries
seeking refuge. I seize this opportunity to call on
the Syrian people, in the face of a seeming lack of
concerted positive international action, to pause and
find a solution to the crisis in a way that will benefit
the Syrian nation.
Indeed, it was in the context of tackling the many
crises that plagued our world that I proposed the
establishment of a conflict mediation commission, under
the Secretary-General’s Office, to further strengthen
the early warning and peacebuilding initiatives of the
United Nations. Experience elsewhere gives us reason
to believe that there is value in the creation of such a
mechanism. Nigeria stands ready to work with other
countries to make the protection of innocent civilians
caught in conflict situations a priority of the United
Nations.
I see a consonance between the theme of the sixty-
sixth session and that of sixty-seventh session — the
adjustment or settlement of international disputes or
situations by peaceful means. Both are concerned with
the peaceful settlement of disputes. This consonance, in
my view, is evidence of the United Nations continuous
and justifiable preoccupation with issues of peace and
security.
Membership in the Security Council in 2010 and
2011 afforded Nigeria an opportunity to work with
others to promote the complex peace and security agenda
of the United Nations. It was indeed a privilege for us
to contribute to the United Nations and international
efforts to make the world a safer and better place.
Nigeria and other emerging nations continue to
demonstrate the capacity to add value to the work of
all the organs of the United Nations, including the
Security Council. For that reason, we must now commit
ourselves to accelerating the long-overdue reforms of
the Security Council. They will no doubt make the
Council more equitable, more inclusive and more effective. Nigeria believes that a reformed Security
Council with expanded permanent membership would
benefit from the unique experiences and capacities that
regional representatives could bring to bear on its work.
It is a matter of great concern that many regions
of the world, including the West African subregion,
are plagued by political crises and insurgency. In
some parts of my own country, for instance, we are
experiencing threats from extremist and militant
activities with quasi-terrorist tactics. Our response has
been multifaceted, as we seek to address the root causes
of those threats, exploring opportunities for dialogue
and improving law enforcement to ensure public safety
and security.
International cooperation has also been a key factor
in tackling our security challenges. We have signed
bilateral agreements with our neighbours: Cameroon,
the Republic of the Niger and Chad. On the multilateral
front, the Lake Chad Basin Commission has been an
excellent platform for cooperation. Those efforts are
aimed at safeguarding the security of our individual
countries and denying extremists the use of our region
as sanctuary. We are confident that those measures will
stem the f low of and access to small arms and light
weapons, which have indeed become Africa’s weapons
of mass destruction and the most potent source of
instability. Indeed, the free f low of small arms and light
weapons from the developed countries that manufacture
them to Africa is one of the greater challenges the
continent is facing in the contemporary world.
Nigeria continues to regard the General Assembly
as a veritable platform for collective action to address
issues of common interest to all nations. One such issue
deserving the serious attention of the United Nations
is the adoption of a legally binding arms trade treaty.
I believe that important instrument could galvanize
the international community to regulate the transfer
of conventional weapons and curb the illicit trade in
small arms and light weapons. There is no doubt that
the absence of a global consensus on controlling the
f low of such weapons, including small arms and light
weapons, is fuelling conflicts, constraining growth and
development and increasing human rights violations.
A ray of hope was offered early this month with
the successful conclusion of the second United
Nations Conference to Review Progress Made in the
Implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent,
Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, including the
unprecedented adoption of an outcome document under
Nigeria’s presidency. We expect that those positive
achievements will have an impact on the entire United
Nations disarmament process, including the Conference
on Disarmament, the Disarmament Commission and
other disarmament mechanisms.
The correlation between disarmament, peace
and security, and development is axiomatic and
self-evident. The work of the United Nations
Commission on Life-saving Commodities for
Women and Children — which I have the honour to
co-chair with Mr. Jens Stoltenberg, Prime Minister of
Norway — recognizes the need to serve and improve
the health of women and children for the benefit
of the future progress of the world. That is indeed a
laudable achievement, for which we commend the
vision of the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon.
The Commission’s overarching objective is to provide
medical resources and other life-saving commodities
in a more affordable, accessible and timely manner,
thereby saving the lives of at least 4 million women and
children worldwide by 2015 and helping to achieve the
health-related targets of the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs). Concerned with the unf lattering
statistics on maternal and child mortality in Nigeria,
my Government has adopted measures for reversing
that unhappy trend, in close collaboration with the
Commission and the related Every Woman Every Child
movement.
We believe, therefore, that it is time that the world
looked beyond 2015 to the post-MDG era. The year
2015 is not a destination but only a milestone on the
long journey to a better, safer, healthier and more caring
world. It is in that spirit that Nigeria will participate in
the forthcoming intergovernmental process to consider
the development of specific and action-oriented
sustainable development goals beyond 2015.
Sustainable development and progress are two
ultimate aspirations of any nation, and they cannot be
achieved without peace and security. Guided by that
realization, Nigeria has committed and shall continue
to commit itself to the attainment of regional and
international peace and security, in close collaboration
with the United Nations, the African Union and
the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS).
Recently, however, our subregion has suffered
some setbacks in terms of unconstitutional change of Governments and the emergence of insurgency, among
others. In Mali, the political crisis stemming from that
reality has escalated to an insurgency that is threatening
the unity of the country. Nigeria and ECOWAS are
working in concert to address that threat, which has the
potential to spill over into neighbouring countries and
destabilize the entire region. Guinea-Bissau is another
f lashpoint of instability in the subregion in which
Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African
States are engaged. Indeed, the contact group, headed
by Nigeria, was set up by the authority of the Heads of
State and Government of ECOWAS to help establish
a transitional Government with a view to returning
that country to political and constitutional order. In
furtherance of that objective, Nigeria provided the sum
of $10 million to the interim Government in Guinea-
Bissau to assist in the stabilization of the country.
The overall security situation in the West African
subregion should continue to be a matter of interest and
concern to the rest of the international community. I
believe I speak for many in the Assembly when I state
that West Africa can ill afford renewed insurgency.
Although ECOWAS is taking measures to address the
situation in Mali, particularly in the north, the urgent
assistance of the United Nations and the support of
other partners will be needed to build on recent gains
to secure peace and stability in Mali and across the
subregion.
Nigeria’s long-standing commitment to the
promotion of issues of particular concern to Africa
is widely acknowledged. Nigeria has stood firm and
played critical roles in all the recent developments in
Africa, including the struggle for independence and
self-determination and the fight against apartheid,
colonialism and discrimination.
Today, we are in the vanguard of the fight against
extremism, terrorism and all forms of mindless
violence. We shall remain undeterred and unf linching
in our resolve to protect our citizens and other persons
living within our borders and to extend such protection
wherever we can to other countries in our region.
We know that no country has unilaterally defeated
the dark forces of violence and terrorism. They
evidently represent an evil that requires international
collaboration. We therefore call upon the international
community and all like-minded stakeholders to address
the matter with all the seriousness it deserves. I cannot end my statement without alluding to the
importance of the support that Nigerians are continuing
to give to the United Nations in not only advancing but
also upholding international peace and security. We
shall strengthen and deepen our cooperation with the
United Nations in peacekeeping operations around
the world. We shall remain focused and committed to
ensuring a meaningful and effective contribution to
its presence and, if need be, to crucial peacekeeping
operations, particularly in Africa.
The events of recent weeks have demonstrated how
increasingly interconnected our world has become and
the extent to which an incident in one area can cause
reverberations in others. The lesson is that freedom
of expression should not be construed as a licence to
incitement. The freedom that we all hold dear and true
should be exercised wisely and consciously. Freedom of
expression and religious tolerance must not be mutually
exclusive but should be complementary to each other.
We eschew violence and deplore needless loss of lives
and destruction of property. We condemn the deliberate
denigration of religious and cultural beliefs and
sensitivities, which in turn leads to counter-reactions.
As the world grows in knowledge and prosperity,
so must humankind grow in maturity and wisdom. Care
and compassion for our fellow beings must inform all
our actions. We must ensure that no nation and no part
of the world is left behind in terms of human progress.
Working together with commitment and common
purpose, we can succeed in building an inclusive, safer
and prosperous world for present and future generations.
The United Nations must lead that effort with renewed
commitment.







2013



On behalf of the Government 
and people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I salute 
the President as he presides over the General Assembly 
at its sixty-eighth session. I assure him of the full 
support and cooperation of the Nigerian delegation. I 
also wish to extend our commendation to Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and to place on record Nigeria’s 
appreciation of his focused and committed leadership 
of the United Nations system.

This session comes at a particularly trying period 
when our world faces a number of critical challenges, 
which make it imperative for us to work within 
the Charter of the United Nations to address them 
meaningfully. It is therefore apt that the theme for this 
session, “The post-2015 development agenda: setting 
the stage”, signposts our desire and determination to 
actively cooperate for the improvement of the overall 
welfare and well-being of the most vulnerable citizens 
of the States Members of the Organization.

Nigeria appreciates the consultative nature of 
designing the post-2015 development agenda. Earlier 
in the year, we supported this global outreach through 
inclusive consultations and surveys of a number of 
Nigerians, who expressed their aspirations with respect 
to the world they expect beyond 2015. A major highlight 
of that process, which has increased national ownership 
of the agenda, is the emphasis on the eradication of 



poverty as the overarching principle in the formulation 
of the successor framework. Tomorrow, Nigeria will host 
a side event on the implementation of the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), in collaboration with the 
United Nations, a number of African countries and our 
development partners.

As I had cause to say before the Assembly at its 
previous session (see A/67/PV.8), the year 2015 is not 
a destination but only a milestone to a better, safer, 
healthier and more compassionate world. Let us 
therefore renew our commitment to the processes that 
will develop the post-MDG framework.

That objective is of particular resonance to us in 
Africa, where the challenges of poverty, illiteracy, 
food insecurity and climate change continue to engage 
the attention of the political leadership. The good 
news, however, is that in the past decade, a sustained 
democratization process across the continent has 
made significant difference in governance processes, 
institutions and structures. Today, we have a renascent 
Africa, which has moved away from the era of 
dictatorship to a new dawn, where the ideals of good 
governance and an emphasis on human rights and 
justice are beginning to drive State-society relations. 
This is the present reality of Africa that must replace 
the old prejudices and assumptions about the continent.

We are firm in our conviction that democracy is 
fundamental to achieving the requisite stability that 
will enable the realization of a sustainable post-2015 
development agenda in Africa. This emergent Africa 
will require the continued support and partnership of the 
international community — an Africa that is no longer 
merely a destination for aid but one that is involved in 
constructive, multi-sectoral exchanges on the global 
stage. Our continent stands ready to continue to engage 
the rest of the world as a partner in formulating a global 
development agenda that will guarantee peace, security 
and stability.

I wish to express my appreciation at Nigeria’s 
selection as co-Chair of the Intergovernmental 
Committee of Experts on Sustainable Development 
Financing. The importance of the Committee’s 
assignment cannot be overstated. For the post-2015 
development agenda to be realistic, it must be backed 
by a robust financing framework, which I hope will 
receive the strong backing of the Organization’s better-
endowed Members.

Nigeria’s commitment to sustainable peace and 
security propels the country to action along with 
member States of our subregional and continental 
organizations whenever stability is threatened in 
our continent. In recent years, Africa has had its 
share of conflicts, notably in Mali, Guinea-Bissau, 
the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Central 
African Republic and Somalia. It is noteworthy that 
African leaders, with the support of the international 
community, have demonstrated the capacity to work in 
concert and decisively in pursuit of long-term solutions 
in the affected States. While a lot more still needs to 
be done, we are convinced that progress is being made.

The recent presidential elections in Mali herald 
a new beginning that should translate into peace and 
prosperity for its people and provide a stronger basis 
for stability within the subregion. I congratulate 
President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, who is here with 
us today. Similarly, the political transition process in 
Guinea-Bissau holds much promise. Among African 
leaders, there is a greater determination and focus on 
the transformation of the continent. That is the required 
impetus for the achievement of development objectives 
that will benefit the people, and rebrand the continent 
even more positively.

Although our world has not witnessed a global 
war since the establishment of the United Nations, 
there have been several conflicts with devastating 
consequences and impact in virtually all regions of 
the world. As global citizens, we have a sacred duty to 
free our world of wars, rivalries, ethnic conflicts and 
religious divisions. Our collective effort in our drive for 
a better world will continue to bind us together.

Nigeria continues to support the efforts of the 
United Nations in addressing the global initiative to 
combat the menace of the illicit trade in small arms and 
light weapons. We have redoubled efforts to address 
this onerous challenge within our borders and across the 
West African subregion. In doing so, we also recognize 
the need for a broad-based global partnership in the 
ongoing battle against transborder crimes, including 
terrorism and acts of piracy. It is regrettable that 
these scourges are sustained by unfettered access by 
non-State actors to illicit small arms and light weapons, 
with which they foster insecurity and instability across 
our continent. For us in Africa, these are the weapons 
of mass destruction.

It is therefore in the light of our collective 
obligation and unceasing struggle to end this nightmare 



that I congratulate Member States on the adoption of 
the Arms Trade Treaty in April. Our hope is that, upon 
its entry into force, the Treaty will herald an era of 
accountable trade in conventional arms, which is critical 
to the security of nations. In line with our continued 
commitment to that project, Nigeria has signed and 
ratified the Treaty. We will continue to engage other 
Member States for its successful implementation.

Terrorism constitutes a major threat to global peace 
and security and undermines the capacity for sustained 
development. In Nigeria, the threat of terrorism in 
a few states in the north-eastern part of our country 
has proven to be a challenge to national stability. We 
will spare no effort in addressing this menace. We 
are therefore confronting it with every resource at our 
disposal, with due regard for fundamental human rights 
and the rule of law. Nigeria would like to place on record 
its appreciation to the international community for its 
support in that regard. The reign of terror anywhere 
in the world is an assault on our collective humanity. 
Three days ago, the stark reality of that menace was 
again brought to the fore by the dastardly terrorist 
attack in Nairobi. We must stand together to win this 
war together.

Piracy, like terrorism, is another menace that has 
attained worrying proportions, especially in Africa’s 
coastal waters. At the bilateral and multilateral 
levels, Nigeria has promoted cooperation to mitigate 
piracy’s impact on and consequences for the security 
and economies of affected coastal States. Indeed, in 
June, the leaders of the Economic Community of West 
African States, the Economic Community of Central 
African States and the Gulf of Guinea Commission 
met in Yaoundé and came up with practical steps to 
collectively confront the menace of piracy in the Gulf of 
Guinea. That effort will no doubt require reinforcement 
and wider support and collaborative action on the part 
of our international partners.

The situation in the Middle East remains volatile. 
The reported use of chemical weapons in the Syrian 
crisis is unacceptable. Nigeria condemns, in the 
strongest possible terms, the use of chemical weapons 
prohibited by international conventions. We applaud the 
current diplomatic efforts to avert a further escalation 
of the crisis. We urge all parties involved to end the 
violence and seek a negotiated solution, including 
through the instruments of the United Nations.

The threat that nuclear weapons pose to the 
survival of the human race is to be understood not just 
in the context of States that aspire to such weapons but 
also of the nations already in possession of them. It is 
our collective responsibility to urge the international 
community to respond to the clarion call for a peaceful 
universe in an age of uncertainty. We can attain that 
objective if we adopt measures and policies that 
promote nuclear disarmament, protect and renew our 
environment and push towards an international system 
that is based on trust, mutual respect and shared goals.


I believe that I express the concern of many when 
I bring up the slow pace of effort and apparent lack of 
progress in the reform of the United Nations, especially 
the Security Council. We believe strongly that the call 
for democratization worldwide should apply not only 
to States but also to international organizations such 
as the United Nations. That is why we call for the 
Council’s democratization. It is desirable in order to 
enshrine justice, equity and fairness and to promote a 
sense of inclusiveness and balance in our world.

Our support for the Security Council in its primary 
responsibility — the maintenance of international peace 
and security — has been total and unwavering. In our 
previous membership of the Council we demonstrated 
both the political will and the capacity to engage in key 
Council responsibilities. Nigeria has therefore decided 
to seek election to a non-permanent seat on the Security 
Council for the period 2014 to 2015, for which I am 
pleased to be able to say we have been endorsed by the 
Economic Community of West African States and the 
African Union. We urge the Assembly to endorse our 
candidature.

Our world continues to be confronted by pressing 
problems and threats. No statement made during this 
session can encompass the extent of those problems. 
The world looks to us, as leaders, to provide hope in 
the midst of crisis, to offer guidance through difficult 
sociopolitical divisions and to ensure that we live in 
a better world. We have obligations to the current 
generation, but we have a greater obligation to those 
yet unborn, who should one day be able to inherit a 
world of sufficiency, irrespective of the circumstances 
of their birth or where they stand on the globe. We must 
work to make that world a reality in recognition of our 
common heritage. We must strive to eradicate poverty, 
hunger, disease and human misery; we must eliminate 
the scourge of nuclear, chemical and biological warfare, 
as well as that of small arms and light weapons. We 
must dedicate ourselves to working together to address 



global, regional and national challenges and to deliver a 
more peaceful, equitable and prosperous world for all. 
It is our duty. We must not fail.



2014


Let me begin, Sir, by 
expressing the best wishes of the Government and the 
people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Mr. Kutesa’s 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-ninth session. His election is a fitting 
tribute to his invaluable and inspiring contribution to 
international diplomacy. I would also like to express 
my warm appreciation to his predecessor, Ambassador 
John Ashe, for the astute and steadfast manner in which 
he steered the affairs of the sixty-eighth session of the 
Assembly. I thank Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon not 
only for his relentless commitment to the work of the 
United Nations, but especially for his tireless efforts 
to address the challenges of world peace and security.

We are meeting at a time when the world looks with 
expectation towards 2015, which marks the end of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the launch 
of their successors, the sustainable development goals 
(SDGs). We must ensure, at all levels, that the SDGs 
reflect the goals and aspirations of all the regions of the 
world. Indeed, if the SDGs are to drive development and 
also meet the aspirations of developing countries for 
poverty elimination and sustainable growth, collective 
ownership of the emerging process must be our 
priority. We in Africa expect that the new SDGs will be 
people-centred. They must promote peace and security, 
structural economic transformation, inclusive growth, 
food security for all, environmental sustainability and 
the shared benefits of science and technology. Indeed, 

the gains of the MDGs must be incorporated into the 
emerging mechanism.

We applaud the wide-ranging recommendations 
of the report of the Intergovernmental Committee 
of Experts on Sustainable Development Financing 
on domestic resource mobilization, international 
development assistance, private sector finance and a 
supportive global enabling environment. My country is 
honoured to have been accorded the privilege, jointly 
with Finland, of leading that work as co-Chair of the 
Intergovernmental Committee of Experts, as mandated 
by the Heads of State and Government at the United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in 
Rio. Along with the work of the Open Working Group 
on sustainable development goals, the report provides 
a solid basis for intergovernmental negotiations on the 
post-2015 development agenda. Nigeria is aware of 
the need to create an enabling environment for rapid 
development. We are committed to strengthening 
institutions and improving governance systems, in 
order to ensure an efficient use of resources and the 
process itself.


The year 2015 also marks the seventieth anniversary 
of the establishment of the United Nations. Even 
though the Charter of the United Nations underlines 
the imperative to spare succeeding generations from 
the scourge of war, the world continues to witness the 
ravages of war and human suffering. Today’s terrorism, 
manifested sometimes in insurgency, is vicious and 
aimless. Its consequences are agonizing, marked 
by a tendency to annihilate victims and completely 
destroy infrastructure and properties. The involvement 
of foreign fighters remains a common feature of 
terrorist groups, whether Al-Qaida in the Maghreb, 
Al-Shabaab in Somalia, Boko Haram in Nigeria or the 
newly emerging Islamic State (IS). The new dimension 
introduced by IS — namely, the goal of conquering 
territory and establishing its destructive ideology — is 
a major challenge that must be collectively halted before 
it becomes the norm. That challenge focuses renewed 
attention on the need to review the existing tools for 
United Nations peacekeeping operations.

The violent and criminal activities of Boko 
Haram have continued to pose a potent challenge to 
the Government and people of Nigeria. Through a 
wave of terror, assassinations, bombings and now 
abductions and kidnappings, predominantly in the 
north-east of the country, Boko Haram is attempting 
to truncate development in those areas through murder 
and mayhem. In April, our innocent daughters were 
abducted from a secondary school in Chibok, in the 
north-east. That callous and criminal act has attracted 
empathy for Nigeria across the globe.

I would like to take this opportunity to thank all 
the countries and organizations that have expressed 
solidarity with us and have continued to support our 
determined efforts to free our daughters. Although it 
has been over three months since they were abducted, 
we have never relented in our efforts to see them safely 
free. Together with our partners, we are working 
assiduously to free our daughters and reunite them 
with their families. To that end, I wish to thank the 
Government of France for organizing and hosting the 
special summit on security in Nigeria that was held in 
Paris in May. I also wish to express my appreciation 
to the Governments of Cameroon, Chad, the Niger and 
Guinea for their committed efforts in support of the 
fight against Boko Haram. The outcome of the French 
process and the follow-up in London, Washington, D.C., 
and Abuja have helped to galvanize regional action and 
are already yielding positive results. Let me underline 
today that we shall not waver until we end this mindless 
war on the innocent and bring all the perpetrators to 
justice. We will triumph over terrorism.

The failure of the Security Council to agree on 
unanimous action over pressing challenges to global 
peace and security in Syria and Iraq and the conflict in 
Ukraine, as well as with regard to the renewed aggression 
between Israel and Palestine, has strengthened the case 
for Security Council reform. Today’s challenges can 
be resolved only by a Security Council whose working 
methods engender transparency, inclusivity and 
common ownership through equitable representation 
of all regions in the decision-making process. It is 
imperative that we take advantage of 2015, which also 
marks the fiftieth anniversary of the 1965 reform, to 
make concrete progress on reforming the Security 
Council. We believe that there needs to be a fast-track 
process in line with the initiative of Mr. John Ashe, 
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth 
session, for establishing a working group on reform. 
Indeed, the Security Council requires the collective 
resolve of all Member States to ensure that 2015 brings 
decisive progress.

Even as Africa, and in particular West Africa, 
battles conflicts and terrorism, with progressive 


results, the region is being devastated by the outbreak 
of the deadly Ebola virus. While Nigeria was able to 
respond effectively to control the spread of the disease, 
the situation in Liberia and Sierra Leone requires 
sustainable collective global action if it is to be 
contained. Through the concerted efforts of our health-
care professionals, the World Health Organization and 
our international partners, we have been able to contain 
the virus, and we can confidently say that Nigeria today 
is Ebola-free.

However, we have continued to support efforts 
to contain the spread of the disease in Sierra Leone, 
Liberia and Guinea. In addition to a direct donation 
totalling $3.5 million, we have provided training and 
capacity-building support to the three countries. It 
is pertinent to stress the need for the international 
community to properly appreciate the magnitude of 
the Ebola challenge. Indulging in isolationist and 
discriminatory tendencies, as some countries are doing, 
will only worsen an already critical situation. To prevent 
the disease from becoming a global catastrophe, the 
United Nations must accord it the maximum priority 
it deserves.

Certainly, there has been much discussion on 
limiting ozone layer depletion since the commencement 
of negotiations under the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change in 1994. However, the 
extent of progress in key areas, particularly in limiting 
the contribution of man-made activities to greenhouse 
gas emission, has yet to be determined.

Nigeria appreciates the indispensable role of the 
United Nations in its search for solutions to all those 
challenges: terrorism, global peace and security, 
the environment, and forging sustainable economic 
development. We have been and will remain a reliable 
and active partner, especially as we collectively work 
to resolve the new and emerging threats to global peace 
and security. The world must come together and win the 
war against terror.

On 29 May 1999, Nigeria ended its military rule after 
the inauguration of a democratically elected President. 
Come February 2015, the country will conduct its fifth 
post-military-rule general election. In keeping with 
my election as President by the people of Nigeria, we 
shall conduct elections based on global best practices to 
further strengthen our democratic institutions.






2015

On behalf of the Government and the people of Nigeria, I would like to congratulate the President and his country on his election to preside over the General Assembly at its seventieth session. May I also express appreciation to his predecessor, Mr. Sam Kahamba Kutesa, and to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, both of whom worked tirelessly to ensure the proper articulation of the post-2015 development agenda and to maintain the focus and commitment to the ideals of the United Nations. I also thank the Secretary-General for his recent visit to Nigeria, where we held very useful discussions.
Fifty-five years ago, almost to the day, my predecessor, Nigeria’s first Prime Minister, Alhaji Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, stood in this forum to declare Nigeria’s desire to develop and maintain friendly relations with all countries. He also assured the world of our country’s commitment to upholding the principles upon which the United Nations was founded.
My country has lived by that conviction, even when, for instance, judgements went against us in territorial disputes with our neighbours. We respected those judgements and abided by them as a mark of respect for the rule of law and the Charter of the United Nations. Nigeria’s record in the service of United Nations peacekeeping operations is second to none. I myself, as a young officer in the Nigerian army, did several tours of duty in the Congo and Lebanon. Nigeria has contributed to United Nations peacekeeping efforts in Ethiopia, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Darfur. Furthermore, we are proud of our contributions to other activities of the United Nations, including the Peacebuilding Commission, the Human Rights Council and security-sector reform.
We are gratified to note that most countries have pledged their commitment to the post-2015 development agenda in the form of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1) and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) contained therein, along with their means of implementation. That successor framework to the Millennium Development Goals has come with lofty aspirations and, if I may say so, heroic assumptions. Nonetheless, the new Goals target broad- ranging development cooperation by the international community up to the year 2030, and they deserve universal support. That is because the SDGs mirror the hopes and aspirations of much of the world.
I should stress that for the newly adopted SDGs to be truly global, they must be practical. In that regard, the Agenda’s core objectives of eradicating poverty and reducing inequalities must be met within the framework of revitalized global partnership support and concrete policies and actions, as outlined in the Addis Ababa Agenda on Financing for Development. Luckily, those two core objectives of the SDGs are precisely at the centre of the agenda of Nigeria’s new Administration.
It must be emphasized that foreign direct investment, supplemented, where suitable, by official development assistance, as outlined in the Addis Ababa Agenda, are necessary, though not sufficient, conditions for accelerated development in countries that are trying to catch up. In that connection, I would like to appeal to industrialized countries to redeem their pledges to devote 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product to development assistance. With the sole exception of the United Kingdom, all the countries concerned, so I am told, have still to meet that United Nations requirement. With the SDGs, we have the opportunity to improve the lives of people, not just in the developing world but in all nations.
The Secretary-General himself has listed six essential elements for delivering on the SDGs, namely, dignity, prosperity, justice, partnership, planet and people. As a prerequisite to those elements, and as we look at history and remember the terrible events that gave rise to the birth of the United Nations in 1945, I would like to propose a seventh essential element, namely, peace.
Peace is close to the hearts of Nigerians, as we are in the front line in the war on terror. Boko Haram’s war against the people of Nigeria, Chad, the Niger and
Cameroon may not attract as much worldwide attention as the wars in the Middle East, but the suffering is just as great and the human cost is equally high. This is a war about values between progress and chaos. It concerns democracy and the rule of law. Boko Haram celebrates violence against the weak and the innocent and, deplorably, hides behind its perverted interpretation of Islam. Boko Haram is as far from Islam as can possibly be imagined.
Many of my colleagues present in this forum want to know how our new Government intends to tackle the huge problems that we have inherited. Friends of Nigeria and foreign investor partners will be encouraged to know that the new Government is attacking the problems we inherited head-on. We intend to tackle the inequalities arising from massive unemployment and the previous Government’s policies that favoured a few people to the detriment of the many. We intend to emphasize quality technological education for development and lay a foundation for the comprehensive care of the aged, the disadvantaged and the infirm. But for now, terrorism is the immediate problem.
Accordingly, the new Nigerian Government, which I have the honour to head, has moved with dispatch to implement a bold and robust strategy to defeat Boko Haram. Nigeria and its neighbours — Cameroon, Chad, the Niger and Benin — are working together to face the common threat within the regional framework of the Lake Chad Basin Commission. We have established a multinational joint task force to confront, degrade and defeat Boko Haram. We have driven them away from many of their strongholds, killed or captured many of their operatives and commanders and freed several hundreds of hostages. One of our major aims is to rescue the Chibok girls alive and unharmed. We are working around the clock to ensure their safety and eventual reunion with their families. The Chibok girls are constantly on our minds and in our plans.
Terrorism is by no means the main or the only evil threatening and undermining the well-being of societies around the world. Corruption, cross-border financial crime, cybercrime, human trafficking, communicable diseases, climate change and the proliferation of weapons are all major challenges of the twenty-first century that the international community must tackle collectively. I would like to reaffirm the Nigerian Government’s unwavering commitment to fighting corruption and illicit financial flows. By any measure, corruption and cross-border financial crimes
are impediments to development, economic growth and the realization of the well-being of citizens across the globe.
Nigeria is ready and willing to partner with international agencies and individual countries on a bilateral basis to confront crime and corruption. In particular, I call upon the international community to urgently redouble its efforts to strengthen the mechanisms for dismantling safe havens for the proceeds of corruption and for ensuring the return of stolen funds and assets to their countries of origin.
The world is now facing another big new challenge, that is, human trafficking. It is an old evil that has taken on an altogether new and dangerous dimension, which threatens to upset international relationships. We in Africa are grieved to see in the international media the hundreds of thousands of our able-bodied men and women who are fleeing to Europe, with thousands dying in the process in the desert or drowning in the Mediterranean. We condemn in the strongest possible terms traffickers in human beings and will support any measures to apprehend and bring them to justice. At the same time, we greatly appreciate European Governments, particularly those of Italy and Germany, for their understanding and humane treatment of those refugees.
Last year, our continent faced the dreadful outbreak of Ebola. We sincerely thank the international community for its collective efforts to contain that deadly disease. We are not out of the woods yet, but we would like to express our appreciation to the United States, the United Kingdom, France and China, which, in collaboration with the host countries, provided outstanding assistance to stop the spread of Ebola and to care for those infected.
Nigeria fully subscribes to and endorses Goals 13, 14 and 15 of the Sustainable Development Goals with regard to climate change. In Nigeria, desertification and land erosion and degradation, which lead to biodiversity loss, are real threats to our environment and, under the auspices of the Lake Chad Basin Commission, we will propose a regional approach to combating those environmental challenges. In that connection, we look forward to the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Paris in December. That Summit should give humankind hope
that the looming threat faced by many communities around the world is being addressed.
We are witnessing a dreadful increase in conflicts fuelled by the availability of small arms and light weapons. I call upon all Member States to show the political will needed to uphold the Charter of the United Nations in that regard. For a start, robust implementation of the Arms Trade Treaty will guarantee that small arms and light weapons are transferred only in a legal manner. Arms traffickers and human traffickers are two evil species that the international community needs to eradicate.
As we engage in these annual debates, we must remind ourselves of the principles that led to the founding of the United Nations years ago. Among them are the peaceful coexistence and self-determination of peoples. In that context, the unresolved question of self-determination for the peoples of Palestine and Western Sahara, both nations having been adjudged by the United Nations as being entitled to that inalienable right, must now be resolved without any further delay or obstacle.
The international community has come to pin its hopes on resolving the Palestinian issue through the two-State solution, which recognizes the legitimate right of each State to exist in peace and security. The world has no more excuses or reasons to delay the implementation of the long list of Security Council resolutions on that question, nor do we have the moral right to deny any people their freedom or condemn them indefinitely to occupation and blockade.
The United Nations is 70 years old. As the world’s forum, it can count many more than 70 major achievements. It is my hope that in the next 70 years it will take control of the climate, help to eliminate communicable diseases, eliminate major and local conflicts and thereby eliminate the refugee problem, take major steps towards reducing harmful inequalities among nations and within nations and, above all, eliminate nuclear weapons.


